Aback (n.) An abacus.

Abactinal (a.) Pertaining to the surface or end opposite to the mouth in a radiate animal; -- opposed to actinal.

Abaction (n.) Stealing cattle on a large scale.

Abactor (n.) One who steals and drives away cattle or beasts by herds or droves.

Abaculi (pl. ) of Abaculus

Abaculus (n.) A small tile of glass, marble, or other substance, of various colors, used in making ornamental patterns in mosaic pavements.

Abacuses (pl. ) of Abacus

Abaci (pl. ) of Abacus

Abacus (n.) A table or tray strewn with sand, anciently used for drawing, calculating, etc.

Abacus (n.) A calculating table or frame; an instrument for performing arithmetical calculations by balls sliding on wires, or counters in grooves, the lowest line representing units, the second line, tens, etc. It is still employed in China.

Abacus (n.) The uppermost member or division of the capital of a column, immediately under the architrave. See Column.

Abacus (n.) A tablet, panel, or compartment in ornamented or mosaic work.

Abacus (n.) A board, tray, or table, divided into perforated compartments, for holding cups, bottles, or the like; a kind of cupboard, buffet, or sideboard.

Abada (n.) The rhinoceros.

Abaddon (n.) The destroyer, or angel of the bottomless pit; -- the same as Apollyon and Asmodeus.

Abaddon (n.) Hell; the bottomless pit.

Abaft (prep.) Behind; toward the stern from; as, abaft the wheelhouse.

Abaft (adv.) Toward the stern; aft; as, to go abaft.

Abaisance (n.) Obeisance.

Abaiser (n.) Ivory black or animal charcoal.

Abaist (p. p.) Abashed; confounded; discomfited.

Abalienate (v. t.) To transfer the title of from one to another; to alienate.

Abalienate (v. t.) To estrange; to withdraw.

Abalienate (v. t.) To cause alienation of (mind).

Abalienation (n.) The act of abalienating; alienation; estrangement.

Abalone (n.) A univalve mollusk of the genus Haliotis. The shell is lined with mother-of-pearl, and used for ornamental purposes; the sea-ear. Several large species are found on the coast of California, clinging closely to the rocks.

Aband (v. t.) To abandon.

Aband (v. t.) To banish; to expel.

Abandoned (imp. & p. p.) of Abandon

Abandoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abandon

Abandon (v. t.) To cast or drive out; to banish; to expel; to reject.

Abandon (v. t.) To give up absolutely; to forsake entirely ; to renounce utterly; to relinquish all connection with or concern on; to desert, as a person to whom one owes allegiance or fidelity; to quit; to surrender.

Abandon (v. t.) Reflexively: To give (one's self) up without attempt at self-control; to yield (one's self) unrestrainedly; -- often in a bad sense.

Abandon (v. t.) To relinquish all claim to; -- used when an insured person gives up to underwriters all claim to the property covered by a policy, which may remain after loss or damage by a peril insured against.

Abandon (v.) Abandonment; relinquishment.

Abandon (n.) A complete giving up to natural impulses; freedom from artificial constraint; careless freedom or ease.

Abandoned (a.) Forsaken, deserted.

Abandoned (a.) Self-abandoned, or given up to vice; extremely wicked, or sinning without restraint; irreclaimably wicked ; as, an abandoned villain.

Abandonedly (adv.) Unrestrainedly.

Abandonee (n.) One to whom anything is legally abandoned.

Abandoner (n.) One who abandons.

Abandonment (n.) The act of abandoning, or the state of being abandoned; total desertion; relinquishment.

Abandonment (n.) The relinquishment by the insured to the underwriters of what may remain of the property insured after a loss or damage by a peril insured against.

Abandonment (n.) The relinquishment of a right, claim, or privilege, as to mill site, etc.

Abandonment (n.) The voluntary leaving of a person to whom one is bound by a special relation, as a wife, husband, or child; desertion.

Abandonment (n.) Careless freedom or ease; abandon.

Abandum (n.) Anything forfeited or confiscated.

Abanet (n.) See Abnet.

Abanga (n.) A West Indian palm; also the fruit of this palm, the seeds of which are used as a remedy for diseases of the chest.

Abannation (n.) Alt. of Abannition

Abannition (n.) Banishment.

Abarticulation (n.) Articulation, usually that kind of articulation which admits of free motion in the joint; diarthrosis.

Abased (imp. & p. p.) of Abase

Abasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abase

Abase (a.) To lower or depress; to throw or cast down; as, to abase the eye.

Abase (a.) To cast down or reduce low or lower, as in rank, office, condition in life, or estimation of worthiness; to depress; to humble; to degrade.

Abased (a.) Lowered; humbled.

Abased (a.) Borne lower than usual, as a fess; also, having the ends of the wings turned downward towards the point of the shield.

Abasedly (adv.) Abjectly; downcastly.

Abasement (n.) The act of abasing, humbling, or bringing low; the state of being abased or humbled; humiliation.

Abaser (n.) He who, or that which, abases.

Abashed (imp. & p. p.) of Abash

Abashing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abash

Abash (v. t.) To destroy the self-possession of; to confuse or confound, as by exciting suddenly a consciousness of guilt, mistake, or inferiority; to put to shame; to disconcert; to discomfit.

Abashedly (adv.) In an abashed manner.

Abashment (n.) The state of being abashed; confusion from shame.

Abassi (n.) Alt. of Abassis

Abassis (n.) A silver coin of Persia, worth about twenty cents.

Abatable (a.) Capable of being abated; as, an abatable writ or nuisance.

Abated (imp. & p. p.) of Abate

Abating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abate

Abate (v. t.) To beat down; to overthrow.

Abate (v. t.) To bring down or reduce from a higher to a lower state, number, or degree; to lessen; to diminish; to contract; to moderate; to cut short; as, to abate a demand; to abate pride, zeal, hope.

Abate (v. t.) To deduct; to omit; as, to abate something from a price.

Abate (v. t.) To blunt.

Abate (v. t.) To reduce in estimation; to deprive.

Abate (v. t.) To bring entirely down or put an end to; to do away with; as, to abate a nuisance, to abate a writ.

Abate (v. t.) To diminish; to reduce. Legacies are liable to be abated entirely or in proportion, upon a deficiency of assets.

Abate (v. t.) To decrease, or become less in strength or violence; as, pain abates, a storm abates.

Abate (v. t.) To be defeated, or come to naught; to fall through; to fail; as, a writ abates.

Abate (n.) Abatement.

Abatement (n.) The act of abating, or the state of being abated; a lessening, diminution, or reduction; removal or putting an end to; as, the abatement of a nuisance is the suppression thereof.

Abatement (n.) The amount abated; that which is taken away by way of reduction; deduction; decrease; a rebate or discount allowed.

Abatement (n.) A mark of dishonor on an escutcheon.

Abatement (n.) The entry of a stranger, without right, into a freehold after the death of the last possessor, before the heir or devisee.

Abater (n.) One who, or that which, abates.

Abatis (n.) Alt. of Abattis

Abattis (n.) A means of defense formed by felled trees, the ends of whose branches are sharpened and directed outwards, or against the enemy.

Abatised (a.) Provided with an abatis.

Abator (n.) One who abates a nuisance.

Abator (n.) A person who, without right, enters into a freehold on the death of the last possessor, before the heir or devisee.

Abattoirs (pl. ) of Abattoir

Abattoir (n.) A public slaughterhouse for cattle, sheep, etc.

Abature (n.) Grass and sprigs beaten or trampled down by a stag passing through them.

Abatvoix (n.) The sounding-board over a pulpit or rostrum.

Abawed (p. p.) Astonished; abashed.

Abaxial (a.) Alt. of Abaxile

Abaxile (a.) Away from the axis or central line; eccentric.

Abay (n.) Barking; baying of dogs upon their prey. See Bay.

Abb (n.) Among weavers, yarn for the warp. Hence, abb wool is wool for the abb.

Abba (n.) Father; religious superior; -- in the Syriac, Coptic, and Ethiopic churches, a title given to the bishops, and by the bishops to the patriarch.

Abbacies (pl. ) of Abbacy

Abbacy (n.) The dignity, estate, or jurisdiction of an abbot.

Abbatial (a.) Belonging to an abbey; as, abbatial rights.

Abbatical (a.) Abbatial.

Abbe (n.) The French word answering to the English abbot, the head of an abbey; but commonly a title of respect given in France to every one vested with the ecclesiastical habit or dress.

Abbess (n.) A female superior or governess of a nunnery, or convent of nuns, having the same authority over the nuns which the abbots have over the monks. See Abbey.

Abbeys (pl. ) of Abbey

Abbey (n.) A monastery or society of persons of either sex, secluded from the world and devoted to religion and celibacy; also, the monastic building or buildings.

Abbey (n.) The church of a monastery.

Abbot (n.) The superior or head of an abbey.

Abbot (n.) One of a class of bishops whose sees were formerly abbeys.

Abbotship (n.) The state or office of an abbot.

Abbreviated (imp. & p. p.) of Abbreviate

Abbreviating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abbreviate

Abbreviate (v. t.) To make briefer; to shorten; to abridge; to reduce by contraction or omission, especially of words written or spoken.

Abbreviate (v. t.) To reduce to lower terms, as a fraction.

Abbreviate (a.) Abbreviated; abridged; shortened.

Abbreviate (a.) Having one part relatively shorter than another or than the ordinary type.

Abbreviate (n.) An abridgment.

Abbreviated (a.) Shortened; relatively short; abbreviate.

Abbreviation (n.) The act of shortening, or reducing.

Abbreviation (n.) The result of abbreviating; an abridgment.

Abbreviation (n.) The form to which a word or phrase is reduced by contraction and omission; a letter or letters, standing for a word or phrase of which they are a part; as, Gen. for Genesis; U.S.A. for United States of America.

Abbreviation (n.) One dash, or more, through the stem of a note, dividing it respectively into quavers, semiquavers, or demi-semiquavers.

Abbreviator (n.) One who abbreviates or shortens.

Abbreviator (n.) One of a college of seventy-two officers of the papal court whose duty is to make a short minute of a decision on a petition, or reply of the pope to a letter, and afterwards expand the minute into official form.

Abbreviatory (a.) Serving or tending to abbreviate; shortening; abridging.

Abbreviature (n.) An abbreviation; an abbreviated state or form.

Abbreviature (n.) An abridgment; a compendium or abstract.

Abb wool () See Abb.

A B C () The first three letters of the alphabet, used for the whole alphabet.

A B C () A primer for teaching the alphabet and first elements of reading.

A B C () The simplest rudiments of any subject; as, the A B C of finance.

Abdal (n.) A religious devotee or dervish in Persia.

Abderian (a.) Given to laughter; inclined to foolish or incessant merriment.

Abderite (n.) An inhabitant of Abdera, in Thrace.

Abdest (n.) Purification by washing the hands before prayer; -- a Mohammedan rite.

Abdicable (a.) Capable of being abdicated.

Abdicant (a.) Abdicating; renouncing; -- followed by of.

Abdicant (n.) One who abdicates.

Abdicated (imp. & p. p.) of Abdicate

Abdicating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abdicate

Abdicate (v. t.) To surrender or relinquish, as sovereign power; to withdraw definitely from filling or exercising, as a high office, station, dignity; as, to abdicate the throne, the crown, the papacy.

Abdicate (v. t.) To renounce; to relinquish; -- said of authority, a trust, duty, right, etc.

Abdicate (v. t.) To reject; to cast off.

Abdicate (v. t.) To disclaim and expel from the family, as a father his child; to disown; to disinherit.

Abdicate (v. i.) To relinquish or renounce a throne, or other high office or dignity.

Abdication (n.) The act of abdicating; the renunciation of a high office, dignity, or trust, by its holder; commonly the voluntary renunciation of sovereign power; as, abdication of the throne, government, power, authority.

Abdicative (a.) Causing, or implying, abdication.

Abdicator (n.) One who abdicates.

Abditive (a.) Having the quality of hiding.

Abditory (n.) A place for hiding or preserving articles of value.

Abdomen (n.) The belly, or that part of the body between the thorax and the pelvis. Also, the cavity of the belly, which is lined by the peritoneum, and contains the stomach, bowels, and other viscera. In man, often restricted to the part between the diaphragm and the commencement of the pelvis, the remainder being called the pelvic cavity.

Abdomen (n.) The posterior section of the body, behind the thorax, in insects, crustaceans, and other Arthropoda.

Abdominal (a.) Of or pertaining to the abdomen; ventral; as, the abdominal regions, muscles, cavity.

Abdominal (a.) Having abdominal fins; belonging to the Abdominales; as, abdominal fishes.

Abdominals (pl. ) of Abdominal

Abdominales (pl. ) of Abdominal

Abdominal (n.) A fish of the group Abdominales.

Abdominales (n. pl.) A group including the greater part of fresh-water fishes, and many marine ones, having the ventral fins under the abdomen behind the pectorals.

Abdominalia (n. pl.) A group of cirripeds having abdominal appendages.

Abdominoscopy (n.) Examination of the abdomen to detect abdominal disease.

Abdominothoracic (a.) Relating to the abdomen and the thorax, or chest.

Abdominous (a.) Having a protuberant belly; pot-bellied.

Abduced (imp. & p. p.) of Abduce

Abducing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abduce

Abduce (v. t.) To draw or conduct away; to withdraw; to draw to a different part.

Abducted (imp. & p. p.) of Abduct

Abducting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abduct

Abduct (v. t.) To take away surreptitiously by force; to carry away (a human being) wrongfully and usually by violence; to kidnap.

Abduct (v. t.) To draw away, as a limb or other part, from its ordinary position.

Abduction (n.) The act of abducing or abducting; a drawing apart; a carrying away.

Abduction (n.) The movement which separates a limb or other part from the axis, or middle line, of the body.

Abduction (n.) The wrongful, and usually the forcible, carrying off of a human being; as, the abduction of a child, the abduction of an heiress.

Abduction (n.) A syllogism or form of argument in which the major is evident, but the minor is only probable.

Abductor (n.) One who abducts.

Abductor (n.) A muscle which serves to draw a part out, or form the median line of the body; as, the abductor oculi, which draws the eye outward.

Abeam (adv.) On the beam, that is, on a line which forms a right angle with the ship's keel; opposite to the center of the ship's side.

Abear (v. t.) To bear; to behave.

Abear (v. t.) To put up with; to endure.

Abearance (n.) Behavior.

Abearing (n.) Behavior.

Abecedarian (n.) One who is learning the alphabet; hence, a tyro.

Abecedarian (n.) One engaged in teaching the alphabet.

Abecedarian (a.) Alt. of Abecedary

Abecedary (a.) Pertaining to, or formed by, the letters of the alphabet; alphabetic; hence, rudimentary.

Abecedary (n.) A primer; the first principle or rudiment of anything.

Abed (adv.) In bed, or on the bed.

Abed (adv.) To childbed (in the phrase "brought abed," that is, delivered of a child).

Abegge () Same as Aby.

Abele (n.) The white poplar (Populus alba).

Abelian (n.) Alt. of Abelonian

Abelite (n.) Alt. of Abelonian

Abelonian (n.) One of a sect in Africa (4th century), mentioned by St. Augustine, who states that they married, but lived in continence, after the manner, as they pretended, of Abel.

Abelmosk (n.) An evergreen shrub (Hibiscus -- formerly Abelmoschus -- moschatus), of the East and West Indies and Northern Africa, whose musky seeds are used in perfumery and to flavor coffee; -- sometimes called musk mallow.

Aber-de-vine (n.) The European siskin (Carduelis spinus), a small green and yellow finch, related to the goldfinch.

Aberr (v. i.) To wander; to stray.

Aberrance (n.) Alt. of Aberrancy

Aberrancy (n.) State of being aberrant; a wandering from the right way; deviation from truth, rectitude, etc.

Aberrant (a.) Wandering; straying from the right way.

Aberrant (a.) Deviating from the ordinary or natural type; exceptional; abnormal.

Aberrate (v. i.) To go astray; to diverge.

Aberration (n.) The act of wandering; deviation, especially from truth or moral rectitude, from the natural state, or from a type.

Aberration (n.) A partial alienation of reason.

Aberration (n.) A small periodical change of position in the stars and other heavenly bodies, due to the combined effect of the motion of light and the motion of the observer; called annual aberration, when the observer's motion is that of the earth in its orbit, and daily or diurnal aberration, when of the earth on its axis; amounting when greatest, in the former case, to 20.4'', and in the latter, to 0.3''. Planetary aberration is that due to the motion of light and the motion of the planet relative to the earth.

Aberration (n.) The convergence to different foci, by a lens or mirror, of rays of light emanating from one and the same point, or the deviation of such rays from a single focus; called spherical aberration, when due to the spherical form of the lens or mirror, such form giving different foci for central and marginal rays; and chromatic aberration, when due to different refrangibilities of the colored rays of the spectrum, those of each color having a distinct focus.

Aberration (n.) The passage of blood or other fluid into parts not appropriate for it.

Aberration (n.) The producing of an unintended effect by the glancing of an instrument, as when a shot intended for A glances and strikes B.

Aberrational (a.) Characterized by aberration.

Aberuncate (v. t.) To weed out.

Aberuncator (n.) A weeding machine.

Abetted (imp. & p. p.) of Abet

Abetting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abet

Abet (v. t.) To instigate or encourage by aid or countenance; -- used in a bad sense of persons and acts; as, to abet an ill-doer; to abet one in his wicked courses; to abet vice; to abet an insurrection.

Abet (v. t.) To support, uphold, or aid; to maintain; -- in a good sense.

Abet (v. t.) To contribute, as an assistant or instigator, to the commission of an offense.

Abet (n.) Act of abetting; aid.

Abetment (n.) The act of abetting; as, an abetment of treason, crime, etc.

Abettal (n.) Abetment.

Abetter (n.) Alt. of Abettor

Abettor (n.) One who abets; an instigator of an offense or an offender.

Abevacuation (n.) A partial evacuation.

Abeyance (n.) Expectancy; condition of being undetermined.

Abeyance (n.) Suspension; temporary suppression.

Abeyancy (n.) Abeyance.

Abeyant (a.) Being in a state of abeyance.

Abhal (n.) The berries of a species of cypress in the East Indies.

Abhominable (a.) Abominable.

Abhominal (a.) Inhuman.

Abhorred (imp. & p. p.) of Abhor

Abhorring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abhor

Abhor (v. t.) To shrink back with shuddering from; to regard with horror or detestation; to feel excessive repugnance toward; to detest to extremity; to loathe.

Abhor (v. t.) To fill with horror or disgust.

Abhor (v. t.) To protest against; to reject solemnly.

Abhor (v. i.) To shrink back with horror, disgust, or dislike; to be contrary or averse; -- with

Abhorrence (n.) Extreme hatred or detestation; the feeling of utter dislike.

Abhorrency (n.) Abhorrence.

Abhorrent (a.) Abhorring; detesting; having or showing abhorrence; loathing; hence, strongly opposed to; as, abhorrent thoughts.

Abhorrent (a.) Contrary or repugnant; discordant; inconsistent; -- followed by to.

Abhorrent (a.) Detestable.

Abhorrently (adv.) With abhorrence.

Abhorrer (n.) One who abhors.

Abhorrible (a.) Detestable.

Abhorring (n.) Detestation.

Abhorring (n.) Object of abhorrence.

Abib (n.) The first month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, corresponding nearly to our April. After the Babylonish captivity this month was called Nisan.

Abidance (n.) The state of abiding; abode; continuance; compliance (with).

Abode (imp. & p. p.) of Abide

Abid () of Abide

Abiding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abide

Abide (v. i.) To wait; to pause; to delay.

Abide (v. i.) To stay; to continue in a place; to have one's abode; to dwell; to sojourn; -- with with before a person, and commonly with at or in before a place.

Abide (v. i.) To remain stable or fixed in some state or condition; to continue; to remain.

Abide (v. t.) To wait for; to be prepared for; to await; to watch for; as, I abide my time.

Abide (v. t.) To endure; to sustain; to submit to.

Abide (v. t.) To bear patiently; to tolerate; to put up with.

Abide (v. t.) To stand the consequences of; to answer for; to suffer for.

Abider (n.) One who abides, or continues.

Abider (n.) One who dwells; a resident.

Abiding (a.) Continuing; lasting.

Abidingly (adv.) Permanently.

Abies (n.) A genus of coniferous trees, properly called Fir, as the balsam fir and the silver fir. The spruces are sometimes also referred to this genus.

Abietene (n.) A volatile oil distilled from the resin or balsam of the nut pine (Pinus sabiniana) of California.

Abietic (a.) Of or pertaining to the fir tree or its products; as, abietic acid, called also sylvic acid.

Abietin (n.) Alt. of Abietine

Abietine (n.) A resinous obtained from Strasburg turpentine or Canada balsam. It is without taste or smell, is insoluble in water, but soluble in alcohol (especially at the boiling point), in strong acetic acid, and in ether.

Abietinic (a.) Of or pertaining to abietin; as, abietinic acid.

Abietite (n.) A substance resembling mannite, found in the needles of the common silver fir of Europe (Abies pectinata).

Abigail (n.) A lady's waiting-maid.

Abiliment (n.) Habiliment.

Abilities (pl. ) of Ability

Ability (n.) The quality or state of being able; power to perform, whether physical, moral, intellectual, conventional, or legal; capacity; skill or competence in doing; sufficiency of strength, skill, resources, etc.; -- in the plural, faculty, talent.

Abime (n.) Alt. of Abyme

Abyme (n.) A abyss.

Abiogenesis (n.) The supposed origination of living organisms from lifeless matter; such genesis as does not involve the action of living parents; spontaneous generation; -- called also abiogeny, and opposed to biogenesis.

Abiogenetic (a.) Of or pertaining to abiogenesis.

Abiogenist (n.) One who believes that life can be produced independently of antecedent.

Abiogenous (a.) Produced by spontaneous generation.

Abiogeny (n.) Same as Abiogenesis.

Abiological (a.) Pertaining to the study of inanimate things.

Abirritant (n.) A medicine that diminishes irritation.

Abirritate (v. t.) To diminish the sensibility of; to debilitate.

Abirritation (n.) A pathological condition opposite to that of irritation; debility; want of strength; asthenia.

Abirritative (a.) Characterized by abirritation or debility.

Abit () 3d sing. pres. of Abide.

Abject (a.) Cast down; low-lying.

Abject (a.) Sunk to a law condition; down in spirit or hope; degraded; servile; groveling; despicable; as, abject posture, fortune, thoughts.

Abject (a.) To cast off or down; hence, to abase; to degrade; to lower; to debase.

Abject (n.) A person in the lowest and most despicable condition; a castaway.

Abjectedness (n.) A very abject or low condition; abjectness.

Abjection (n.) The act of bringing down or humbling.

Abjection (n.) The state of being rejected or cast out.

Abjection (n.) A low or downcast state; meanness of spirit; abasement; degradation.

Abjectly (adv.) Meanly; servilely.

Abjectness (n.) The state of being abject; abasement; meanness; servility.

Abjudge (v. t.) To take away by judicial decision.

Abjudicate (v. t.) To reject by judicial sentence; also, to abjudge.

Abjudication (n.) Rejection by judicial sentence.

Abjugate (v. t.) To unyoke.

Abjunctive (a.) Exceptional.

Abjuration (n.) The act of abjuring or forswearing; a renunciation upon oath; as, abjuration of the realm, a sworn banishment, an oath taken to leave the country and never to return.

Abjuration (n.) A solemn recantation or renunciation; as, an abjuration of heresy.

Abjuratory (a.) Containing abjuration.

Abjured (imp. & p. p.) of Abjure

Abjuring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abjure

Abjure (v. t.) To renounce upon oath; to forswear; to disavow; as, to abjure allegiance to a prince. To abjure the realm, is to swear to abandon it forever.

Abjure (v. t.) To renounce or reject with solemnity; to recant; to abandon forever; to reject; repudiate; as, to abjure errors.

Abjure (v. i.) To renounce on oath.

Abjurement (n.) Renunciation.

Abjurer (n.) One who abjures.

Ablactate (v. t.) To wean.

Ablactation (n.) The weaning of a child from the breast, or of young beasts from their dam.

Ablactation (n.) The process of grafting now called inarching, or grafting by approach.

Ablaqueate (v. t.) To lay bare, as the roots of a tree.

Ablaqueation (n.) The act or process of laying bare the roots of trees to expose them to the air and water.

Ablastemic (a.) Non-germinal.

Ablation (n.) A carrying or taking away; removal.

Ablation (n.) Extirpation.

Ablation (n.) Wearing away; superficial waste.

Ablatitious (a.) Diminishing; as, an ablatitious force.

Ablative (a.) Taking away or removing.

Ablative (a.) Applied to one of the cases of the noun in Latin and some other languages, -- the fundamental meaning of the case being removal, separation, or taking away.

Ablative () The ablative case.

Ablaut (n.) The substitution of one root vowel for another, thus indicating a corresponding modification of use or meaning; vowel permutation; as, get, gat, got; sing, song; hang, hung.

Ablaze (adv. & a.) On fire; in a blaze, gleaming.

Ablaze (adv. & a.) In a state of glowing excitement or ardent desire.

Able (superl.) Fit; adapted; suitable.

Able (superl.) Having sufficient power, strength, force, skill, means, or resources of any kind to accomplish the object; possessed of qualifications rendering competent for some end; competent; qualified; capable; as, an able workman, soldier, seaman, a man able to work; a mind able to reason; a person able to be generous; able to endure pain; able to play on a piano.

Able (superl.) Specially: Having intellectual qualifications, or strong mental powers; showing ability or skill; talented; clever; powerful; as, the ablest man in the senate; an able speech.

Able (superl.) Legally qualified; possessed of legal competence; as, able to inherit or devise property.

Able (a.) To make able; to enable; to strengthen.

Able (a.) To vouch for.

-able () An adjective suffix now usually in a passive sense; able to be; fit to be; expressing capacity or worthiness in a passive sense; as, movable, able to be moved; amendable, able to be amended; blamable, fit to be blamed; salable.

Able-bodied (a.) Having a sound, strong body; physically competent; robust.

Ablegate (v. t.) To send abroad.

Ablegate (n.) A representative of the pope charged with important commissions in foreign countries, one of his duties being to bring to a newly named cardinal his insignia of office.

Ablegation (n.) The act of sending abroad.

Able-minded (a.) Having much intellectual power.

Ableness (n.) Ability of body or mind; force; vigor.

Ablepsy (n.) Blindness.

Abler (a.) comp. of Able.

Abler (a.) superl. of Able.

Ablet () Alt. of Ablen

Ablen () A small fresh-water fish (Leuciscus alburnus); the bleak.

Abligate (v. t.) To tie up so as to hinder from.

Abligurition (n.) Prodigal expense for food.

Ablins (adv.) Perhaps.

Abloom (adv.) In or into bloom; in a blooming state.

Ablude (v. t.) To be unlike; to differ.

Abluent (a.) Washing away; carrying off impurities; detergent.

Abluent (n.) A detergent.

Ablush (adv. & a.) Blushing; ruddy.

Ablution (n.) The act of washing or cleansing; specifically, the washing of the body, or some part of it, as a religious rite.

Ablution (n.) The water used in cleansing.

Ablution (n.) A small quantity of wine and water, which is used to wash the priest's thumb and index finger after the communion, and which then, as perhaps containing portions of the consecrated elements, is drunk by the priest.

Ablutionary (a.) Pertaining to ablution.

Abluvion (n.) That which is washed off.

Ably (adv.) In an able manner; with great ability; as, ably done, planned, said.

-ably () A suffix composed of -able and the adverbial suffix -ly; as, favorably.

Abnegated (imp. & p. p.) of Abnegate

Abnegating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abnegate

Abnegate (v. t.) To deny and reject; to abjure.

Abnegation (n.) a denial; a renunciation.

Abnegative (a.) Denying; renouncing; negative.

Abnegator (n.) One who abnegates, denies, or rejects anything.

Abnet (n.) The girdle of a Jewish priest or officer.

Abnodate (v. t.) To clear (tress) from knots.

Abnodation (n.) The act of cutting away the knots of trees.

Abnormal (a.) Not conformed to rule or system; deviating from the type; anomalous; irregular.

Abnormalities (pl. ) of Abnormality

Abnormality (n.) The state or quality of being abnormal; variation; irregularity.

Abnormality (n.) Something abnormal.

Abnormally (adv.) In an abnormal manner; irregularly.

Abnormities (pl. ) of Abnormity

Abnormity (n.) Departure from the ordinary type; irregularity; monstrosity.

Abnormous (a.) Abnormal; irregular.

Aboard (adv.) On board; into or within a ship or boat; hence, into or within a railway car.

Aboard (adv.) Alongside; as, close aboard.

Aboard (prep.) On board of; as, to go aboard a ship.

Aboard (prep.) Across; athwart.

Abodance (n.) An omen; a portending.

Abode () pret. of Abide.

Abode (n.) Act of waiting; delay.

Abode (n.) Stay or continuance in a place; sojourn.

Abode (n.) Place of continuance, or where one dwells; abiding place; residence; a dwelling; a habitation.

Abode (v. t.) An omen.

Abode (v. t.) To bode; to foreshow.

Abode (v. i.) To be ominous.

Abodement (n.) A foreboding; an omen.

Aboding (n.) A foreboding.

Abolished (imp. & p. p.) of Abolish

Abolishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abolish

Abolish (v. t.) To do away with wholly; to annul; to make void; -- said of laws, customs, institutions, governments, etc.; as, to abolish slavery, to abolish folly.

Abolish (v. t.) To put an end to, or destroy, as a physical objects; to wipe out.

Abolishable (a.) Capable of being abolished.

Abolisher (n.) One who abolishes.

Abolishment (n.) The act of abolishing; abolition; destruction.

Abolition (n.) The act of abolishing, or the state of being abolished; an annulling; abrogation; utter destruction; as, the abolition of slavery or the slave trade; the abolition of laws, decrees, ordinances, customs, taxes, debts, etc.

Abolitionism (n.) The principles or measures of abolitionists.

Abolitionist (n.) A person who favors the abolition of any institution, especially negro slavery.

Abolitionize (v. t.) To imbue with the principles of abolitionism.

Aboma (n.) A large South American serpent (Boa aboma).

Babbler (n.) A name given to any one of family (Timalinae) of thrushlike birds, having a chattering note.

Babblery (n.) Babble.

Babe (n.) An infant; a young child of either sex; a baby.

Babe (n.) A doll for children.

Babehood (n.) Babyhood.

Babel (n.) The city and tower in the land of Shinar, where the confusion of languages took place.

Babel (n.) Hence: A place or scene of noise and confusion; a confused mixture of sounds, as of voices or languages.

Babery (n.) Finery of a kind to please a child.

Babian (n.) Alt. of Babion

Babion (n.) A baboon.

Babillard (n.) The lesser whitethroat of Europe; -- called also babbling warbler.

Babingtonite (n.) A mineral occurring in triclinic crystals approaching pyroxene in angle, and of a greenish black color. It is a silicate of iron, manganese, and lime.

Babiroussa (n.) Alt. of Babirussa

Babirussa (n.) A large hoglike quadruped (Sus, / Porcus, babirussa) of the East Indies, sometimes domesticated; the Indian hog. Its upper canine teeth or tusks are large and recurved.

Babish (a.) Like a babe; a childish; babyish.

Babism (n.) The doctrine of a modern religious sect, which originated in Persia in 1843, being a mixture of Mohammedan, Christian, Jewish and Parsee elements.

Babist (n.) A believer in Babism.

Bablah (n.) The ring of the fruit of several East Indian species of acacia; neb-neb. It contains gallic acid and tannin, and is used for dyeing drab.

Baboo (n.) Alt. of Babu

Babu (n.) A Hindoo gentleman; a native clerk who writes English; also, a Hindoo title answering to Mr. or Esquire.

Baboon (n.) One of the Old World Quadrumana, of the genera Cynocephalus and Papio; the dog-faced ape. Baboons have dog-like muzzles and large canine teeth, cheek pouches, a short tail, and naked callosities on the buttocks. They are mostly African. See Mandrill, and Chacma, and Drill an ape.

Baboonery (n.) Baboonish behavior.

Baboonish (a.) Like a baboon.

Babies (pl. ) of Baby

Baby (n.) An infant or young child of either sex; a babe.

Baby (n.) A small image of an infant; a doll.

Baby (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, an infant; young or little; as, baby swans.

Babied (imp. & p. p.) of Baby

Babying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Baby

Baby (v. i.) To treat like a young child; to keep dependent; to humor; to fondle.

Baby farm () A place where the nourishment and care of babies are offered for hire.

Baby farmer () One who keeps a baby farm.

Baby farming () The business of keeping a baby farm.

Babyhood (n.) The state or period of infancy.

Babyhouse (a.) A place for children's dolls and dolls' furniture.

Babyish (a.) Like a baby; childish; puerile; simple.

Babyism (n.) The state of being a baby.

Babyism (n.) A babyish manner of acting or speaking.

Baby jumper () A hoop suspended by an elastic strap, in which a young child may be held secure while amusing itself by jumping on the floor.

Babylonian (a.) Of or pertaining to the real or to the mystical Babylon, or to the ancient kingdom of Babylonia; Chaldean.

Babylonian (n.) An inhabitant of Babylonia (which included Chaldea); a Chaldean.

Babylonian (n.) An astrologer; -- so called because the Chaldeans were remarkable for the study of astrology.

Babylonic (a.) Alt. of Babylonical

Babylonical (a.) Pertaining to Babylon, or made there; as, Babylonic garments, carpets, or hangings.

Babylonical (a.) Tumultuous; disorderly.

Babylonish (n.) Of or pertaining to, or made in, Babylon or Babylonia.

Babylonish (n.) Pertaining to the Babylon of Revelation xiv. 8.

Babylonish (n.) Pertaining to Rome and papal power.

Babylonish (n.) Confused; Babel-like.

Babyroussa (n.) Alt. of Babyrussa

Babyrussa (n.) See Babyroussa.

Babyship (n.) The quality of being a baby; the personality of an infant.

Bac (n.) A broad, flatbottomed ferryboat, usually worked by a rope.

Bac (n.) A vat or cistern. See 1st Back.

Baccalaureate (n.) The degree of bachelor of arts. (B.A. or A.B.), the first or lowest academical degree conferred by universities and colleges.

Baccalaureate (n.) A baccalaureate sermon.

Baccalaureate (a.) Pertaining to a bachelor of arts.

Baccara (n.) Alt. of Baccarat

Baccarat (n.) A French game of cards, played by a banker and punters.

Baccare (interj.) Alt. of Backare

Backare (interj.) Stand back! give place! -- a cant word of the Elizabethan writers, probably in ridicule of some person who pretended to a knowledge of Latin which he did not possess.

Baccate (a.) Pulpy throughout, like a berry; -- said of fruits.

Baccated (a.) Having many berries.

Baccated (a.) Set or adorned with pearls.

Bacchanal (a.) Relating to Bacchus or his festival.

Bacchanal (a.) Engaged in drunken revels; drunken and riotous or noisy.

Bacchanal (n.) A devotee of Bacchus; one who indulges in drunken revels; one who is noisy and riotous when intoxicated; a carouser.

Bacchanal (n.) The festival of Bacchus; the bacchanalia.

Bacchanal (n.) Drunken revelry; an orgy.

Bacchanal (n.) A song or dance in honor of Bacchus.

Bacchanalia (n. pl.) A feast or an orgy in honor of Bacchus.

Bacchanalia (n. pl.) Hence: A drunken feast; drunken reveler.

Bacchanalian (a.) Of or pertaining to the festival of Bacchus; relating to or given to reveling and drunkenness.

Bacchanalian (n.) A bacchanal; a drunken reveler.

Bacchanalianism (n.) The practice of bacchanalians; bacchanals; drunken revelry.

Bacchants (pl. ) of Bacchant

Bacchantes (pl. ) of Bacchant

Bacchant (n.) A priest of Bacchus.

Bacchant (n.) A bacchanal; a reveler.

Bacchant (a.) Bacchanalian; fond of drunken revelry; wine-loving; reveling; carousing.

Bacchantes (pl. ) of Bacchante

Bacchante (n.) A priestess of Bacchus.

Bacchante (n.) A female bacchanal.

Bacchantic (a.) Bacchanalian.

Bacchic (a.) Alt. of Bacchical

Bacchical (a.) Of or relating to Bacchus; hence, jovial, or riotous,with intoxication.

Bacchii (pl. ) of Bacchius

Bacchius (n.) A metrical foot composed of a short syllable and two long ones; according to some, two long and a short.

Bacchus (n.) The god of wine, son of Jupiter and Semele.

Bacciferous (a.) Producing berries.

Bacciform (a.) Having the form of a berry.

Baccivorous (a.) Eating, or subsisting on, berries; as, baccivorous birds.

Bace (n., a., & v.) See Base.

Bacharach (n.) Alt. of Backarack

Backarack (n.) A kind of wine made at Bacharach on the Rhine.

Bachelor (n.) A man of any age who has not been married.

Bachelor (n.) An unmarried woman.

Bachelor (n.) A person who has taken the first or lowest degree in the liberal arts, or in some branch of science, at a college or university; as, a bachelor of arts.

Bachelor (n.) A knight who had no standard of his own, but fought under the standard of another in the field; often, a young knight.

Bachelor (n.) In the companies of London tradesmen, one not yet admitted to wear the livery; a junior member.

Bachelor (n.) A kind of bass, an edible fresh-water fish (Pomoxys annularis) of the southern United States.

Bachelordom (n.) The state of bachelorhood; the whole body of bachelors.

Bachelorhood (n.) The state or condition of being a bachelor; bachelorship.

Bachelorism (n.) Bachelorhood; also, a manner or peculiarity belonging to bachelors.

Bachelor's button () A plant with flowers shaped like buttons; especially, several species of Ranunculus, and the cornflower (Centaures cyanus) and globe amaranth (Gomphrena).

Bachelorship (n.) The state of being a bachelor.

Bachelry (n.) The body of young aspirants for knighthood.

Bacillar (a.) Shaped like a rod or staff.

Bacillariae (n. pl.) See Diatom.

Bacillary (a.) Of or pertaining to little rods; rod-shaped.

Bacilliform (a.) Rod-shaped.

Bacilli (pl. ) of Bacillus

Bacillus (n.) A variety of bacterium; a microscopic, rod-shaped vegetable organism.

Cabaret (n.) the type of entertainment provided in a cabaret{2}.

Cabas (n.) A flat basket or frail for figs, etc.; hence, a lady's flat workbasket, reticule, or hand bag; -- often written caba.

Cabassou (n.) A species of armadillo of the genus Xenurus (X. unicinctus and X. hispidus); the tatouay.

Cabbage (n.) An esculent vegetable of many varieties, derived from the wild Brassica oleracea of Europe. The common cabbage has a compact head of leaves. The cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, etc., are sometimes classed as cabbages.

Cabbage (n.) The terminal bud of certain palm trees, used, like, cabbage, for food. See Cabbage tree, below.

Cabbage (n.) The cabbage palmetto. See below.

Cabbage (v. i.) To form a head like that the cabbage; as, to make lettuce cabbage.

Cabbaged (imp. & p. p) of Cabbage

Cabbaging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cabbage

Cabbage (v. i.) To purloin or embezzle, as the pieces of cloth remaining after cutting out a garment; to pilfer.

Cabbage (n.) Cloth or clippings cabbaged or purloined by one who cuts out garments.

Cabbler (n.) One who works at cabbling.

Cabbling (n.) The process of breaking up the flat masses into which wrought iron is first hammered, in order that the pieces may be reheated and wrought into bar iron.

Cabeca (n.) Alt. of Cabesse

Cabesse (n.) The finest kind of silk received from India.

Caber (n.) A pole or beam used in Scottish games for tossing as a trial of strength.

Cabezon (n.) A California fish (Hemilepidotus spinosus), allied to the sculpin.

Cabiai (n.) The capybara. See Capybara.

Cabin (n.) A cottage or small house; a hut.

Cabin (n.) A small room; an inclosed place.

Cabin (n.) A room in ship for officers or passengers.

Cabined (imp. & p. p.) of Cabin

Cabining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cabin

Cabin (v. i.) To live in, or as in, a cabin; to lodge.

Cabin (v. t.) To confine in, or as in, a cabin.

Cabinet (n.) A hut; a cottage; a small house.

Cabinet (n.) A small room, or retired apartment; a closet.

Cabinet (n.) A private room in which consultations are held.

Cabinet (n.) The advisory council of the chief executive officer of a nation; a cabinet council.

Cabinet (n.) A set of drawers or a cupboard intended to contain articles of value. Hence:

Cabinet (n.) A decorative piece of furniture, whether open like an etagere or closed with doors. See Etagere.

Cabinet (n.) Any building or room set apart for the safe keeping and exhibition of works of art, etc.; also, the collection itself.

Cabinet (a.) Suitable for a cabinet; small.

Cabineting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cabinet

Cabinet (v. i.) To inclose

Cabinetmaker (n.) One whose occupation is to make cabinets or other choice articles of household furniture, as tables, bedsteads, bureaus, etc.

Cabinetmaking (n.) The art or occupation of making the finer articles of household furniture.

Cabinetwork (n.) The art or occupation of working upon wooden furniture requiring nice workmanship; also, such furniture.

Cabirean (n.) One of the Cabiri.

Cabbiri (n. pl.) Certain deities originally worshiped with mystical rites by the Pelasgians in Lemnos and Samothrace and afterwards throughout Greece; -- also called sons of Hephaestus (or Vulcan), as being masters of the art of working metals.

Cabirian (a.) Same as Cabiric.

Cabiric (a.) Of or pertaining to the Cabiri, or to their mystical worship.

Cable (n.) A large, strong rope or chain, of considerable length, used to retain a vessel at anchor, and for other purposes. It is made of hemp, of steel wire, or of iron links.

Cable (n.) A rope of steel wire, or copper wire, usually covered with some protecting or insulating substance; as, the cable of a suspension bridge; a telegraphic cable.

Cable (n.) A molding, shaft of a column, or any other member of convex, rounded section, made to resemble the spiral twist of a rope; -- called also cable molding.

Cable (v. t.) To fasten with a cable.

Cable (v. t.) To ornament with cabling. See Cabling.

Cabled (imp. & p. p.) of Cable

Cabling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cable

Cable (v. t. & i.) To telegraph by a submarine cable

Cabled (a.) Fastened with, or attached to, a cable or rope.

Cabled (a.) Adorned with cabling.

Cablegram (n.) A message sent by a submarine telegraphic cable.

Cablelaid (a.) Composed of three three-stranded ropes, or hawsers, twisted together to form a cable.

Cablelaid (a.) Twisted after the manner of a cable; as, a cable-laid gold chain.

Cablet (n.) A little cable less than ten inches in circumference.

Cabling (n.) The decoration of a fluted shaft of a column or of a pilaster with reeds, or rounded moldings, which seem to be laid in the hollows of the fluting. These are limited in length to about one third of the height of the shaft.

Cabmen (pl. ) of Cabman

Cabman (n.) The driver of a cab.

Cabob (n.) A small piece of mutton or other meat roasted on a skewer; -- so called in Turkey and Persia.

Cabob (n.) A leg of mutton roasted, stuffed with white herrings and sweet herbs.

Cabob (v. t.) To roast, as a cabob.

Caboched (a.) Showing the full face, but nothing of the neck; -- said of the head of a beast in armorial bearing.

Caboodle (n.) The whole collection; the entire quantity or number; -- usually in the phrase the whole caboodle.

Caboose (n.) A house on deck, where the cooking is done; -- commonly called the galley.

Caboose (n.) A car used on freight or construction trains for brakemen, workmen, etc.; a tool car.

Cabotage (n.) Navigation along the coast; the details of coast pilotage.

Cabree (n.) The pronghorn antelope.

Cabrerite (n.) An apple-green mineral, a hydrous arseniate of nickel, cobalt, and magnesia; -- so named from the Sierra Cabrera, Spain.

Cabrilla (n.) A name applied to various species of edible fishes of the genus Serranus, and related genera, inhabiting the Meditarranean, the coast of California, etc. In California, some of them are also called rock bass and kelp salmon.

Cabriole (n.) A curvet; a leap. See Capriole.

Cabriolet (n.) A one-horse carriage with two seats and a calash top.

Cabrit (n.) Same as Cabree.

Caburn (n.) A small line made of spun yarn, to bind or worm cables, seize tackles, etc.

Cacaemia (n.) Alt. of Cachaemia

Cachaemia (n.) A degenerated or poisoned condition of the blood.

Cacaine (n.) The essential principle of cacao; -- now called theobromine.

Cacajao (n.) A South American short-tailed monkey (Pithecia (/ Brachyurus) melanocephala).

Cacao (n.) A small evergreen tree (Theobroma Cacao) of South America and the West Indies. Its fruit contains an edible pulp, inclosing seeds about the size of an almond, from which cocoa, chocolate, and broma are prepared.

Cachalot (n.) The sperm whale (Physeter macrocephalus). It has in the top of its head a large cavity, containing an oily fluid, which, after death, concretes into a whitish crystalline substance called spermaceti. See Sperm whale.

Cache (n.) A hole in the ground, or hiding place, for concealing and preserving provisions which it is inconvenient to carry.

Cachectic (a.) Alt. of Cachectical

Cachectical (a.) Having, or pertaining to, cachexia; as, cachectic remedies; cachectical blood.

Cachepot (n.) An ornamental casing for a flowerpot, of porcelain, metal, paper, etc.

Cachet (n.) A seal, as of a letter.

Cachexia (n.) Alt. of Cachexy

Cachexy (n.) A condition of ill health and impairment of nutrition due to impoverishment of the blood, esp. when caused by a specific morbid process (as cancer or tubercle).

Cachinnation (n.) Loud or immoderate laughter; -- often a symptom of hysterical or maniacal affections.

Cachinnatory (a.) Consisting of, or accompanied by, immoderate laughter.

Cachiri (n.) A fermented liquor made in Cayenne from the grated root of the manioc, and resembling perry.

Cacholong (n.) An opaque or milk-white chalcedony, a variety of quartz; also, a similar variety of opal.

Cachou (n.) A silvered aromatic pill, used to correct the odor of the breath.

Cachucha (n.) An Andalusian dance in three-four time, resembling the bolero.

Cachunde (n.) A pastil or troche, composed of various aromatic and other ingredients, highly celebrated in India as an antidote, and as a stomachic and antispasmodic.

Cacique (n.) See Cazique.

Cack (v. i.) To ease the body by stool; to go to stool.

Cackerel (n.) The mendole; a small worthless Mediterranean fish considered poisonous by the ancients. See Mendole.

Cackled (imp. & p. p.) of Cackle

Cackling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cackle

Cackle (v. i.) To make a sharp, broken noise or cry, as a hen or goose does.

Cackle (v. i.) To laugh with a broken noise, like the cackling of a hen or a goose; to giggle.

Cackle (v. i.) To talk in a silly manner; to prattle.

Cackle (n.) The sharp broken noise made by a goose or by a hen that has laid an egg.

Cackle (n.) Idle talk; silly prattle.

Cackler (n.) A fowl that cackles.

Cackler (n.) One who prattles, or tells tales; a tattler.

Cackling (n.) The broken noise of a goose or a hen.

Cacochymia (n.) Alt. of Cacochymy

Cacochymy (n.) A vitiated state of the humors, or fluids, of the body, especially of the blood.

Cacochymic (a.) Alt. of Cacochymical

Cacochymical (a.) Having the fluids of the body vitiated, especially the blood.

Cacodemon (n.) An evil spirit; a devil or demon.

Cacodemon (n.) The nightmare.

Cacodoxical (a.) Heretical.

Cacodoxy (n.) Erroneous doctrine; heresy; heterodoxy.

Cacodyl (n.) Alkarsin; a colorless, poisonous, arsenical liquid, As2(CH3)4, spontaneously inflammable and possessing an intensely disagreeable odor. It is the type of a series of compounds analogous to the nitrogen compounds called hydrazines.

Cacodylic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, cacodyl.

Cacoethes (n.) A bad custom or habit; an insatiable desire; as, cacoethes scribendi, "The itch for writing".

Cacoethes (n.) A bad quality or disposition in a disease; an incurable ulcer.

Cacogastric (a.) Troubled with bad digestion.

Cacographic (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, cacography; badly written or spelled.

Cacography (n.) Incorrect or bad writing or spelling.

Cacolet (n.) A chair, litter, or other contrivance fitted to the back or pack saddle of a mule for carrying travelers in mountainous districts, or for the transportation of the sick and wounded of an army.

Cacology (n.) Bad speaking; bad choice or use of words.

Cacomixle (n.) Alt. of Cacomixl

Cacomixtle (n.) Alt. of Cacomixl

Cacomixl (n.) A North American carnivore (Bassaris astuta), about the size of a cat, related to the raccoons. It inhabits Mexico, Texas, and California.

Cacoon (n.) One of the seeds or large beans of a tropical vine (Entada scandens) used for making purses, scent bottles, etc.

Cacophonic (a.) Alt. of Cacophonious

Cacophonical (a.) Alt. of Cacophonious

Cacophonous (a.) Alt. of Cacophonious

Cacophonious (a.) Harsh-sounding.

Cacophonies (pl. ) of Cacophony

Cacophony (n.) An uncouth or disagreable sound of words, owing to the concurrence of harsh letters or syllables.

Cacophony (n.) A combination of discordant sounds.

Cacophony (n.) An unhealthy state of the voice.

Cacotechny (n.) A corruption or corrupt state of art.

Cacoxene (n.) Alt. of Cacoxenite

Cacoxenite (n.) A hydrous phosphate of iron occurring in yellow radiated tufts. The phosphorus seriously injures it as an iron ore.

Cactaceous (a.) Belonging to, or like, the family of plants of which the prickly pear is a common example.

Cactuses (pl. ) of Cactus

Cacti (pl. ) of Cactus

Cactus (n.) Any plant of the order Cactacae, as the prickly pear and the night-blooming cereus. See Cereus. They usually have leafless stems and branches, often beset with clustered thorns, and are mostly natives of the warmer parts of America.

Cacuminal (a.) Pertaining to the top of the palate; cerebral; -- applied to certain consonants; as, cacuminal (or cerebral) letters.

Cacuminate (v. i.) To make sharp or pointed.

Cad (n.) A person who stands at the door of an omnibus to open and shut it, and to receive fares; an idle hanger-on about innyards.

Cad (n.) A lowbred, presuming person; a mean, vulgar fellow.

Cadastral (a.) Of or pertaining to landed property.

Cadastre (n.) Alt. of Cadaster

Cadaster (n.) An official statement of the quantity and value of real estate for the purpose of apportioning the taxes payable on such property.

Cadaver (n.) A dead human body; a corpse.

Cadaveric (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a corpse, or the changes produced by death; cadaverous; as, cadaveric rigidity.

Cadaverous (a.) Having the appearance or color of a dead human body; pale; ghastly; as, a cadaverous look.

Cadaverous (a.) Of or pertaining to, or having the qualities of, a dead body.

Cadbait (n.) See Caddice.

Caddice (n.) Alt. of Caddis

Caddis (n.) The larva of a caddice fly. These larvae generally live in cylindrical cases, open at each end, and covered externally with pieces of broken shells, gravel, bits of wood, etc. They are a favorite bait with anglers. Called also caddice worm, or caddis worm.

Caddis (n.) A kind of worsted lace or ribbon.

Caddish (a.) Like a cad; lowbred and presuming.

Caddow (n.) A jackdaw.

Caddies (pl. ) of Caddy

Caddy (n.) A small box, can, or chest to keep tea in.

Cade (a.) Bred by hand; domesticated; petted.

Cade (v. t.) To bring up or nourish by hand, or with tenderness; to coddle; to tame.

Cade (n.) A barrel or cask, as of fish.

Cade (n.) A species of juniper (Juniperus Oxycedrus) of Mediterranean countries.

Cadence (n.) The act or state of declining or sinking.

Cadence (n.) A fall of the voice in reading or speaking, especially at the end of a sentence.

Cadence (n.) A rhythmical modulation of the voice or of any sound; as, music of bells in cadence sweet.

Cadence (n.) Rhythmical flow of language, in prose or verse.

Cadence (n.) See Cadency.

Cadence (n.) Harmony and proportion in motions, as of a well-managed horse.

Cadence (n.) A uniform time and place in marching.

Cadence (n.) The close or fall of a strain; the point of rest, commonly reached by the immediate succession of the tonic to the dominant chord.

Cadence (n.) A cadenza, or closing embellishment; a pause before the end of a strain, which the performer may fill with a flight of fancy.

Cadence (v. t.) To regulate by musical measure.

Cadency (n.) Descent of related families; distinction between the members of a family according to their ages.

Cadene (n.) A species of inferior carpet imported from the Levant.

Cadent (a.) Falling.

Cadenza (n.) A parenthetic flourish or flight of ornament in the course of a piece, commonly just before the final cadence.

Cader (n.) See Cadre.

Cadet (n.) The younger of two brothers; a younger brother or son; the youngest son.

Cadet (n.) A gentleman who carries arms in a regiment, as a volunteer, with a view of acquiring military skill and obtaining a commission.

Cadet (n.) A young man in training for military or naval service; esp. a pupil in a military or naval school, as at West Point, Annapolis, or Woolwich.

Cadetship (n.) The position, rank, or commission of a cadet; as, to get a cadetship.

Cadew (n.) Alt. of Cadeworm

Cadeworm (n.) A caddice. See Caddice.

Cadged (imp. & p. p.) of Cadge

Cadging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Cadge

Cadge (v. t. & i.) To carry, as a burden.

Cadge (v. t. & i.) To hawk or peddle, as fish, poultry, etc.

Cadge (v. t. & i.) To intrude or live on another meanly; to beg.

Cadge (n.) A circular frame on which cadgers carry hawks for sale.

Cadger (v. t.) A packman or itinerant huckster.

Dab (n.) A small mass of anything soft or moist.

Dabb (n.) A large, spine-tailed lizard (Uromastix spinipes), found in Egypt, Arabia, and Palestine; -- called also dhobb, and dhabb.

Dabber (n.) That with which one dabs; hence, a pad or other device used by printers, engravers, etc., as for dabbing type or engraved plates with ink.

Dabbled (imp. & p. p.) of Dabble

Dabbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dabble

Dabble (v. t.) To wet by little dips or strokes; to spatter; to sprinkle; to moisten; to wet.

Dabble (v. i.) To play in water, as with the hands; to paddle or splash in mud or water.

Dabble (v. i.) To work in slight or superficial manner; to do in a small way; to tamper; to meddle.

Dabbler (n.) One who dabbles.

Dabbler (n.) One who dips slightly into anything; a superficial meddler.

Dabblingly (adv.) In a dabbling manner.

Dabchick (n.) A small water bird (Podilymbus podiceps), allied to the grebes, remarkable for its quickness in diving; -- called also dapchick, dobchick, dipchick, didapper, dobber, devil-diver, hell-diver, and pied-billed grebe.

Daboia (n.) A large and highly venomous Asiatic viper (Daboia xanthica).

Dabster (n.) One who is skilled; a master of his business; a proficient; an adept.

Dacapo () From the beginning; a direction to return to, and end with, the first strain; -- indicated by the letters D. C. Also, the strain so repeated.

Dace (n.) A small European cyprinoid fish (Squalius leuciscus or Leuciscus vulgaris); -- called also dare.

Dachshund (n.) One of a breed of small dogs with short crooked legs, and long body; -- called also badger dog. There are two kinds, the rough-haired and the smooth-haired.

Dacian (a.) Of or pertaining to Dacia or the Dacians.

Dacian (n.) A native of ancient Dacia.

Dacoit (n.) One of a class of robbers, in India, who act in gangs.

Dacoity (n.) The practice of gang robbery in India; robbery committed by dacoits.

Dacotahs (n. pl.) Same as Dacotas.

Dactyl (n.) A poetical foot of three sylables (-- ~ ~), one long followed by two short, or one accented followed by two unaccented; as, L. tegm/n/, E. mer\b6ciful; -- so called from the similarity of its arrangement to that of the joints of a finger.

Dactyl (n.) A finger or toe; a digit.

Dactyl (n.) The claw or terminal joint of a leg of an insect or crustacean.

Dactylar (a.) Pertaining to dactyl; dactylic.

Dactylar (a.) Of or pertaining to a finger or toe, or to the claw of an insect crustacean.

Dactylet (n.) A dactyl.

Dactylic (a.) Pertaining to, consisting chiefly or wholly of, dactyls; as, dactylic verses.

Dactylic (n.) A line consisting chiefly or wholly of dactyls; as, these lines are dactylics.

Dactylic (n.) Dactylic meters.

Dactylioglyph (n.) An engraver of gems for rings and other ornaments.

Dactylioglyph (n.) The inscription of the engraver's name on a finger ring or gem.

Dactylioglyphi (n.) The art or process of gem engraving.

Dactyliography (n.) The art of writing or engraving upon gems.

Dactyliography (n.) In general, the literature or history of the art.

Dactyliology (n.) That branch of archaeology which has to do with gem engraving.

Dactyliology (n.) That branch of archaeology which has to do with finger rings.

Dactyliomancy (n.) Divination by means of finger rings.

Dactylist (n.) A writer of dactylic verse.

Dactylitis (n.) An inflammatory affection of the fingers.

Dactylology (n.) The art of communicating ideas by certain movements and positions of the fingers; -- a method of conversing practiced by the deaf and dumb.

Dactylomancy (n.) Dactyliomancy.

Dactylonomy (n.) The art of numbering or counting by the fingers.

Dactylopterous (a.) Having the inferior rays of the pectoral fins partially or entirely free, as in the gurnards.

Dactylotheca (n.) The scaly covering of the toes, as in birds.

Dactylozooid (n.) A kind of zooid of Siphonophora which has an elongated or even vermiform body, with one tentacle, but no mouth. See Siphonophora.

Dad (n.) Father; -- a word sometimes used by children.

Daddled (imp. & p. p.) of Dadle

Daddling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Dadle

Dadle (v. i.) To toddle; to walk unsteadily, like a child or an old man; hence, to do anything slowly or feebly.

Daddock (n.) The rotten body of a tree.

Daddy (n.) Diminutive of Dad.

Daddy longlegs () An arachnidan of the genus Phalangium, and allied genera, having a small body and four pairs of long legs; -- called also harvestman, carter, and grandfather longlegs.

Daddy longlegs () A name applied to many species of dipterous insects of the genus Tipula, and allied genera, with slender bodies, and very long, slender legs; the crane fly; -- called also father longlegs.

Dade (v. t.) To hold up by leading strings or by the hand, as a child while he toddles.

Dade (v. i.) To walk unsteadily, as a child in leading strings, or just learning to walk; to move slowly.

Dadoes (pl. ) of Dado

Dado (n.) That part of a pedestal included between the base and the cornice (or surbase); the die. See Illust. of Column.

Dado (n.) In any wall, that part of the basement included between the base and the base course. See Base course, under Base.

Dado (n.) In interior decoration, the lower part of the wall of an apartment when adorned with moldings, or otherwise specially decorated.

Daedal (a.) Alt. of Daedalian

Daedalian (a.) Cunningly or ingeniously formed or working; skillful; artistic; ingenious.

Daedalian (a.) Crafty; deceitful.

Daedalous (a.) Having a variously cut or incised margin; -- said of leaves.

Daemon (a.) Alt. of Daemonic

Daemonic (a.) See Demon, Demonic.

Daff (v. t.) To cast aside; to put off; to doff.

Daff (n.) A stupid, blockish fellow; a numskull.

Daff (v. i.) To act foolishly; to be foolish or sportive; to toy.

Daff (v. t.) To daunt.

Daffodil (n.) A plant of the genus Asphodelus.

Daffodil (n.) A plant of the genus Narcissus (N. Pseudo-narcissus). It has a bulbous root and beautiful flowers, usually of a yellow hue. Called also daffodilly, daffadilly, daffadowndilly, daffydowndilly, etc.

Daft (a.) Stupid; foolish; idiotic; also, delirious; insane; as, he has gone daft.

Daft (a.) Gay; playful; frolicsome.

Daftness (n.) The quality of being daft.

Dag (n.) A dagger; a poniard.

Dag (n.) A large pistol formerly used.

Dag (n.) The unbranched antler of a young deer.

Dag (n.) A misty shower; dew.

Dag (n.) A loose end; a dangling shred.

Dag (v. t.) To daggle or bemire.

Dag (v. t.) To cut into jags or points; to slash; as, to dag a garment.

Dag (v. i.) To be misty; to drizzle.

Dagger (n.) A short weapon used for stabbing. This is the general term: cf. Poniard, Stiletto, Bowie knife, Dirk, Misericorde, Anlace.

Dagger (n.) A mark of reference in the form of a dagger [/]. It is the second in order when more than one reference occurs on a page; -- called also obelisk.

Dagger (v. t.) To pierce with a dagger; to stab.

Dagger (n.) A timber placed diagonally in a ship's frame.

Dagges (n. pl.) An ornamental cutting of the edges of garments, introduced about a. d. 1346, according to the Chronicles of St Albans.

Daggled (imp. & p. p.) of Daggle

Daggling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Daggle

Daggle (v. t.) To trail, so as to wet or befoul; to make wet and limp; to moisten.

Daggle (v. i.) To run, go, or trail one's self through water, mud, or slush; to draggle.

Daggle-tail (a.) Alt. of Daggle-tailed

Daggle-tailed (a.) Having the lower ends of garments defiled by trailing in mire or filth; draggle-tailed.

Daggle-tail (n.) A slovenly woman; a slattern; a draggle-tail.

Daglock (n.) A dirty or clotted lock of wool on a sheep; a taglock.

Dagos (pl. ) of Dago

Dago (n.) A nickname given to a person of Spanish (or, by extension, Portuguese or Italian) descent.

Dagoba (n.) A dome-shaped structure built over relics of Buddha or some Buddhist saint.

Dagon () The national god of the Philistines, represented with the face and hands and upper part of a man, and the tail of a fish.

Dagon (n.) A slip or piece.

Dagswain (n.) A coarse woolen fabric made of daglocks, or the refuse of wool.

Dag-tailed (a.) Daggle-tailed; having the tail clogged with daglocks.

Daguerrean (a.) Alt. of Daguerreian

Daguerreian (a.) Pertaining to Daguerre, or to his invention of the daguerreotype.

Daguerreotype (n.) An early variety of photograph, produced on a silver plate, or copper plate covered with silver, and rendered sensitive by the action of iodine, or iodine and bromine, on which, after exposure in the camera, the latent image is developed by the vapor of mercury.

Daguerreotype (n.) The process of taking such pictures.

Daguerreotyped (imp. & p. p.) of Daguerreotype

Daguerreotyping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Daguerreotype

Daguerreotype (v. t.) To produce or represent by the daguerreotype process, as a picture.

Daguerreotype (v. t.) To impress with great distinctness; to imprint; to imitate exactly.

Daguerreotyper (n.) Alt. of Daguerreotypist

Daguerreotypist (n.) One who takes daguerreotypes.

Daguerreotypy (n.) The art or process of producing pictures by method of Daguerre.

Dahabeah (n.) A Nile boat constructed on the model of a floating house, having large lateen sails.

Dahlias (pl. ) of Dahlia

Dahlia (n.) A genus of plants native to Mexico and Central America, of the order Compositae; also, any plant or flower of the genus. The numerous varieties of cultivated dahlias bear conspicuous flowers which differ in color.

Dahlin (n.) A variety of starch extracted from the dahlia; -- called also inulin. See Inulin.

Dailiness (n.) Daily occurence.

Daily (a.) Happening, or belonging to, each successive day; diurnal; as, daily labor; a daily bulletin.

Dailies (pl. ) of Daily

Daily (n.) A publication which appears regularly every day; as, the morning dailies.

Daily (adv.) Every day; day by day; as, a thing happens daily.

Daimios (pl. ) of Daimio

Daimio (n.) The title of the feudal nobles of Japan.

Daint (n.) Something of exquisite taste; a dainty.

Daint (a.) Dainty.

Daintified (imp. & p. p.) of Daintify

Daintifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Daintify

Daintify (v. t.) To render dainty, delicate, or fastidious.

Daintily (adv.) In a dainty manner; nicely; scrupulously; fastidiously; deliciously; prettily.

Daintiness (n.) The quality of being dainty; nicety; niceness; elegance; delicacy; deliciousness; fastidiousness; squeamishness.

Daintrel (n.) Adelicacy.

Eale (n.) Ale.

Eame (n.) Uncle.

Ean (v. t. & i.) To bring forth, as young; to yean.

Eanling (n.) A lamb just brought forth; a yeanling.

Ear (n.) The organ of hearing; the external ear.

Ear (n.) The sense of hearing; the perception of sounds; the power of discriminating between different tones; as, a nice ear for music; -- in the singular only.

Ear (n.) That which resembles in shape or position the ear of an animal; any prominence or projection on an object, -- usually one for support or attachment; a lug; a handle; as, the ears of a tub, a skillet, or dish. The ears of a boat are outside kneepieces near the bow. See Illust. of Bell.

Ear (n.) Same as Acroterium.

Ear (n.) Same as Crossette.

Ear (n.) Privilege of being kindly heard; favor; attention.

Eared (imp. & p. p.) of Ear

Earing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ear

Ear (v. t.) To take in with the ears; to hear.

Ear (n.) The spike or head of any cereal (as, wheat, rye, barley, Indian corn, etc.), containing the kernels.

Ear (v. i.) To put forth ears in growing; to form ears, as grain; as, this corn ears well.

Ear (v. t.) To plow or till; to cultivate.

Earable (a.) Arable; tillable.

Earache (n.) Ache or pain in the ear.

Earal (a.) Receiving by the ear.

Ear-bored (a.) Having the ear perforated.

Earcap (n.) A cap or cover to protect the ear from cold.

Earcockle (n.) A disease in wheat, in which the blackened and contracted grain, or ear, is filled with minute worms.

Eardrop (n.) A pendant for the ear; an earring; as, a pair of eardrops.

Eardrop (n.) A species of primrose. See Auricula.

Eardrum (n.) The tympanum. See Illust. of Ear.

Eared (a.) Having (such or so many) ears; -- used in composition; as, long-eared-eared; sharp-eared; full-eared; ten-eared.

Eared (a.) Having external ears; having tufts of feathers resembling ears.

Eariness (n.) Fear or timidity, especially of something supernatural.

Earing (n.) A line used to fasten the upper corners of a sail to the yard or gaff; -- also called head earing.

Earing (n.) A line for hauling the reef cringle to the yard; -- also called reef earing.

Earing (n.) A line fastening the corners of an awning to the rigging or stanchions.

Earing (n.) Coming into ear, as corn.

Earing (n.) A plowing of land.

Earl (n.) A nobleman of England ranking below a marquis, and above a viscount. The rank of an earl corresponds to that of a count (comte) in France, and graf in Germany. Hence the wife of an earl is still called countess. See Count.

Earl (n.) The needlefish.

Earlap (n.) The lobe of the ear.

Earldom (n.) The jurisdiction of an earl; the territorial possessions of an earl.

Earldom (n.) The status, title, or dignity of an earl.

Earldorman (n.) Alderman.

Earlduck (n.) The red-breasted merganser (Merganser serrator).

Earles penny () Earnest money. Same as Arles penny.

Earless (a.) Without ears; hence, deaf or unwilling to hear.

Earlet (n.) An earring.

Earliness (n.) The state of being early or forward; promptness.

Earl marshal () An officer of state in England who marshals and orders all great ceremonials, takes cognizance of matters relating to honor, arms, and pedigree, and directs the proclamation of peace and war. The court of chivalry was formerly under his jurisdiction, and he is still the head of the herald's office or college of arms.

Earlock (n.) A lock or curl of hair near the ear; a lovelock. See Lovelock.

Early (adv.) Soon; in good season; seasonably; betimes; as, come early.

Early (adv.) In advance of the usual or appointed time; in good season; prior in time; among or near the first; -- opposed to late; as, the early bird; an early spring; early fruit.

Early (adv.) Coming in the first part of a period of time, or among the first of successive acts, events, etc.

Earmark (n.) A mark on the ear of sheep, oxen, dogs, etc., as by cropping or slitting.

Earmark (n.) A mark for identification; a distinguishing mark.

Earmarked (imp. & p. p.) of Earmark

Earmarking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Earmark

Earmark (v. t.) To mark, as sheep, by cropping or slitting the ear.

Earn (n.) See Ern, n.

Earned (imp. & p. p.) of Earn

Earning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Earn

Earn (v. t.) To merit or deserve, as by labor or service; to do that which entitles one to (a reward, whether the reward is received or not).

Earn (v. t.) To acquire by labor, service, or performance; to deserve and receive as compensation or wages; as, to earn a good living; to earn honors or laurels.

Earn (v. t. & i.) To grieve.

Earn (v. i.) To long; to yearn.

Earn (v. i.) To curdle, as milk.

Earnest (n.) Seriousness; reality; fixed determination; eagerness; intentness.

Earnest (a.) Ardent in the pursuit of an object; eager to obtain or do; zealous with sincerity; with hearty endeavor; heartfelt; fervent; hearty; -- used in a good sense; as, earnest prayers.

Earnest (a.) Intent; fixed closely; as, earnest attention.

Earnest (a.) Serious; important.

Earnest (v. t.) To use in earnest.

Earnest (n.) Something given, or a part paid beforehand, as a pledge; pledge; handsel; a token of what is to come.

Earnest (n.) Something of value given by the buyer to the seller, by way of token or pledge, to bind the bargain and prove the sale.

Earnestful (a.) Serious.

Earnestly (adv.) In an earnest manner.

Earnestness (n.) The state or quality of being earnest; intentness; anxiety.

Earnful (a.) Full of anxiety or yearning.

Earnings (pl. ) of Earning

Earning (n.) That which is earned; wages gained by work or services; money earned; -- used commonly in the plural.

Earpick (n.) An instrument for removing wax from the ear.

Ear-piercer (n.) The earwig.

Earreach (n.) Earshot.

Fable (v. i.) To compose fables; hence, to write or speak fiction ; to write or utter what is not true.

Fable (v. t.) To feign; to invent; to devise, and speak of, as true or real; to tell of falsely.

Fabler (n.) A writer of fables; a fabulist; a dealer in untruths or falsehoods.

Fabliaux (pl. ) of Fabliau

Fabliau (n.) One of the metrical tales of the Trouveres, or early poets of the north of France.

Fabric (n.) The structure of anything; the manner in which the parts of a thing are united; workmanship; texture; make; as cloth of a beautiful fabric.

Fabric (n.) That which is fabricated

Fabric (n.) Framework; structure; edifice; building.

Fabric (n.) Cloth of any kind that is woven or knit from fibers, either vegetable or animal; manufactured cloth; as, silks or other fabrics.

Fabric (n.) The act of constructing; construction.

Fabric (n.) Any system or structure consisting of connected parts; as, the fabric of the universe.

Fabricked (imp. & p. p.) of Fabric

Fabricking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fabric

Fabric (v. t.) To frame; to build; to construct.

Fabricant (n.) One who fabricates; a manufacturer.

Fabricated (imp. & p. p.) of Fabricate

Fabricating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fabricate

Fabricate (v. t.) To form into a whole by uniting its parts; to frame; to construct; to build; as, to fabricate a bridge or ship.

Fabricate (v. t.) To form by art and labor; to manufacture; to produce; as, to fabricate woolens.

Fabricate (v. t.) To invent and form; to forge; to devise falsely; as, to fabricate a lie or story.

Fabrication (n.) The act of fabricating, framing, or constructing; construction; manufacture; as, the fabrication of a bridge, a church, or a government.

Fabrication (n.) That which is fabricated; a falsehood; as, the story is doubtless a fabrication.

Fabricator (n.) One who fabricates; one who constructs or makes.

Fabricatress (n.) A woman who fabricates.

Fabrile (a.) Pertaining to a workman, or to work in stone, metal, wood etc.; as, fabrile skill.

Fabulist (n.) One who invents or writes fables.

Fabulized (imp. & p. p.) of Fabulize

Fabulizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Fabulize

Fabulize (v. i.) To invent, compose, or relate fables or fictions.

Fabulosity (n.) Fabulousness.

Fabulosity (n.) A fabulous or fictitious story.

Fabulous (a.) Feigned, as a story or fable; related in fable; devised; invented; not real; fictitious; as, a fabulous description; a fabulous hero.

Fabulous (a.) Passing belief; exceedingly great; as, a fabulous price.

Faburden (n.) A species of counterpoint with a drone bass.

Faburden (n.) A succession of chords of the sixth.

Faburden (n.) A monotonous refrain.

Fac (n.) A large ornamental letter used, esp. by the early printers, at the commencement of the chapters and other divisions of a book.

Facade (n.) The front of a building; esp., the principal front, having some architectural pretensions. Thus a church is said to have its facade unfinished, though the interior may be in use.

Face (n.) The exterior form or appearance of anything; that part which presents itself to the view; especially, the front or upper part or surface; that which particularly offers itself to the view of a spectator.

Face (n.) That part of a body, having several sides, which may be seen from one point, or which is presented toward a certain direction; one of the bounding planes of a solid; as, a cube has six faces.

Face (n.) The principal dressed surface of a plate, disk, or pulley; the principal flat surface of a part or object.

Face (n.) That part of the acting surface of a cog in a cog wheel, which projects beyond the pitch line.

Face (n.) The width of a pulley, or the length of a cog from end to end; as, a pulley or cog wheel of ten inches face.

Face (n.) The upper surface, or the character upon the surface, of a type, plate, etc.

Face (n.) The style or cut of a type or font of type.

Face (n.) Outside appearance; surface show; look; external aspect, whether natural, assumed, or acquired.

Face (n.) That part of the head, esp. of man, in which the eyes, cheeks, nose, and mouth are situated; visage; countenance.

Face (n.) Cast of features; expression of countenance; look; air; appearance.

Face (n.) Ten degrees in extent of a sign of the zodiac.

Face (n.) Maintenance of the countenance free from abashment or confusion; confidence; boldness; shamelessness; effrontery.

Face (n.) Presence; sight; front; as in the phrases, before the face of, in the immediate presence of; in the face of, before, in, or against the front of; as, to fly in the face of danger; to the face of, directly to; from the face of, from the presence of.

Face (n.) Mode of regard, whether favorable or unfavorable; favor or anger; mostly in Scriptural phrases.

Face (n.) The end or wall of the tunnel, drift, or excavation, at which work is progressing or was last done.

Face (n.) The exact amount expressed on a bill, note, bond, or other mercantile paper, without any addition for interest or reduction for discount.

Faced (imp. & p. p.) of Face

Facing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Face

Face (v. t.) To meet in front; to oppose with firmness; to resist, or to meet for the purpose of stopping or opposing; to confront; to encounter; as, to face an enemy in the field of battle.

Face (v. t.) To Confront impudently; to bully.

Face (v. t.) To stand opposite to; to stand with the face or front toward; to front upon; as, the apartments of the general faced the park.

Face (v. t.) To cover in front, for ornament, protection, etc.; to put a facing upon; as, a building faced with marble.

Face (v. t.) To line near the edge, esp. with a different material; as, to face the front of a coat, or the bottom of a dress.

Face (v. t.) To cover with better, or better appearing, material than the mass consists of, for purpose of deception, as the surface of a box of tea, a barrel of sugar, etc.

Face (v. t.) To make the surface of (anything) flat or smooth; to dress the face of (a stone, a casting, etc.); esp., in turning, to shape or smooth the flat surface of, as distinguished from the cylindrical surface.

Face (v. t.) To cause to turn or present a face or front, as in a particular direction.

Face (v. i.) To carry a false appearance; to play the hypocrite.

Face (v. i.) To turn the face; as, to face to the right or left.

Face (v. i.) To present a face or front.

Faced (a.) Having (such) a face, or (so many) faces; as, smooth-faced, two-faced.

Faser (n.) One who faces; one who puts on a false show; a bold-faced person.

Faser (n.) A blow in the face, as in boxing; hence, any severe or stunning check or defeat, as in controversy.

Facet (n.) A little face; a small, plane surface; as, the facets of a diamond.

Facet (n.) A smooth circumscribed surface; as, the articular facet of a bone.

Facet (n.) The narrow plane surface between flutings of a column.

Facet (n.) One of the numerous small eyes which make up the compound eyes of insects and crustaceans.

Faceted (imp. & p. p.) of Facet

Faceting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Facet

Facet (v. t.) To cut facets or small faces upon; as, to facet a diamond.

Facete (a.) Facetious; witty; humorous.

Faceted (a.) Having facets.

Facetiae (n. pl.) Witty or humorous writings or saying; witticisms; merry conceits.

Facetious (a.) Given to wit and good humor; merry; sportive; jocular; as, a facetious companion.

Facetious (a.) Characterized by wit and pleasantry; exciting laughter; as, a facetious story or reply.

Facette (n.) See Facet, n.

Facework (n.) The material of the outside or front side, as of a wall or building; facing.

Facia (n.) See Fascia.

Facial (a.) Of or pertaining to the face; as, the facial artery, vein, or nerve.

Faciend (n.) The multiplicand. See Facient, 2.

Facient (n.) One who does anything, good or bad; a doer; an agent.

Facient (n.) One of the variables of a quantic as distinguished from a coefficient.

Facient (n.) The multiplier.

Facies (n.) The anterior part of the head; the face.

Gabber (n.) A liar; a deceiver.

Gabber (n.) One addicted to idle talk.

Gabbled (imp. & p. p.) of Gabble

Gabbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gabble

Gabble (v. i.) To talk fast, or to talk without meaning; to prate; to jabber.

Gabble (v. i.) To utter inarticulate sounds with rapidity; as, gabbling fowls.

Gabble (n.) Loud or rapid talk without meaning.

Gabble (n.) Inarticulate sounds rapidly uttered; as of fowls.

Gabbier (n.) One who gabbles; a prater.

Gabbro (n.) A name originally given by the Italians to a kind of serpentine, later to the rock called euphotide, and now generally used for a coarsely crystalline, igneous rock consisting of lamellar pyroxene (diallage) and labradorite, with sometimes chrysolite (olivine gabbro).

Gabel (n.) A rent, service, tribute, custom, tax, impost, or duty; an excise.

Gabeler (n.) A collector of gabels or taxes.

Gabelle (n.) A tax, especially on salt.

Gabelleman (n.) A gabeler.

Gaberdine (n.) See Gabardine.

Gaber-lunzie (n.) A beggar with a wallet; a licensed beggar.

Gabert (n.) A lighter, or vessel for inland navigation.

Gabion (n.) A hollow cylinder of wickerwork, like a basket without a bottom. Gabions are made of various sizes, and filled with earth in building fieldworks to shelter men from an enemy's fire.

Gabion (n.) An openwork frame, as of poles, filled with stones and sunk, to assist in forming a bar dyke, etc., as in harbor improvement.

Gabionade (n.) A traverse made with gabions between guns or on their flanks, protecting them from enfilading fire.

Gabionade (n.) A structure of gabions sunk in lines, as a core for a sand bar in harbor improvements.

Gabionage (n.) The part of a fortification built of gabions.

Gabioned (p. a.) Furnished with gabions.

Gabionnade (n.) See Gabionade.

Gable (n.) A cable.

Gable (n.) The vertical triangular portion of the end of a building, from the level of the cornice or eaves to the ridge of the roof. Also, a similar end when not triangular in shape, as of a gambrel roof and the like.

Gable (n.) The end wall of a building, as distinguished from the front or rear side.

Gable (n.) A decorative member having the shape of a triangular gable, such as that above a Gothic arch in a doorway.

Gablet (n.) A small gable, or gable-shaped canopy, formed over a tabernacle, niche, etc.

Gablock (n.) A false spur or gaff, fitted on the heel of a gamecock.

Gaby (n.) A simpleton; a dunce; a lout.

Gad (n.) The point of a spear, or an arrowhead.

Gad (n.) A pointed or wedge-shaped instrument of metal, as a steel wedge used in mining, etc.

Gad (n.) A sharp-pointed rod; a goad.

Gad (n.) A spike on a gauntlet; a gadling.

Gad (n.) A wedge-shaped billet of iron or steel.

Gad (n.) A rod or stick, as a fishing rod, a measuring rod, or a rod used to drive cattle with.

Gadded (imp. & p. p.) of Gad

Gadding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gad

Gad (n.) To walk about; to rove or go about, without purpose; hence, to run wild; to be uncontrolled.

Gadabout (n.) A gadder

Gadbee (n.) The gadfly.

Gadder (n.) One who roves about idly, a rambling gossip.

Gadding (a. & n.) Going about much, needlessly or without purpose.

Gaddingly (adv.) In a roving, idle manner.

Gaddish (a.) Disposed to gad.

Gade (n.) A small British fish (Motella argenteola) of the Cod family.

Gade (n.) A pike, so called at Moray Firth; -- called also gead.

Gadere (v. t. & i.) Alt. of Gadre

Gadre (v. t. & i.) To gather.

Gadflies (pl. ) of Gadfly

Gadfly (n.) Any dipterous insect of the genus Oestrus, and allied genera of botflies.

Gadhelic (a.) Of or pertaining to that division of the Celtic languages, which includes the Irish, Gaelic, and Manx.

Gadic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, the cod (Gadus); -- applied to an acid obtained from cod-liver oil, viz., gadic acid.

Gaditanian (a.) Of or relating to Cadiz, in Spain.

Gaditanian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Cadiz.

Gadling (n.) See Gad, n., 4.

Gadling (v. i.) Gadding about.

Gadling (n.) A roving vagabond.

Gadman (n.) A gadsman.

Gadoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the family of fishes (Gadidae) which includes the cod, haddock, and hake.

Gadoid (n.) One of the Gadidae.

Gadolinia (n.) A rare earth, regarded by some as an oxide of the supposed element gadolinium, by others as only a mixture of the oxides of yttrium, erbium, ytterbium, etc.

Gadolinic (a.) Pertaining to or containing gadolinium.

Gadolinite (n.) A mineral of a nearly black color and vitreous luster, and consisting principally of the silicates of yttrium, cerium, and iron.

Gadolinium (n.) A supposed rare metallic element, with a characteristic spectrum, found associated with yttrium and other rare metals. Its individuality and properties have not yet been determined.

Gadsman (n.) One who uses a gad or goad in driving.

Gaduin (n.) A yellow or brown amorphous substance, of indifferent nature, found in cod-liver oil.

Gadwall (n.) A large duck (Anas strepera), valued as a game bird, found in the northern parts of Europe and America; -- called also gray duck.

Gael (n.sing. & pl.) A Celt or the Celts of the Scotch Highlands or of Ireland; now esp., a Scotch Highlander of Celtic origin.

Gaelic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Gael, esp. to the Celtic Highlanders of Scotland; as, the Gaelic language.

Gaelic (n.) The language of the Gaels, esp. of the Highlanders of Scotland. It is a branch of the Celtic.

Gaff (n.) A barbed spear or a hook with a handle, used by fishermen in securing heavy fish.

Gaff (n.) The spar upon which the upper edge of a fore-and-aft sail is extended.

Gaff (n.) Same as Gaffle, 1.

Gaffed (imp. & p. p.) of Gaff

Gaffing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gaff

Gaff (v. t.) To strike with a gaff or barbed spear; to secure by means of a gaff; as, to gaff a salmon.

Gaffer (n.) An old fellow; an aged rustic.

Gaffer (n.) A foreman or overseer of a gang of laborers.

Gaffle (n.) An artificial spur or gaff for gamecocks.

Gaffle (n.) A lever to bend crossbows.

Gaff-topsail (n.) A small triangular sail having its foot extended upon the gaff and its luff upon the topmast.

Gagged (imp. & p. p.) of Gag

Gagging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Gag

Gag (v. t.) To stop the mouth of, by thrusting sometimes in, so as to hinder speaking; hence, to silence by authority or by violence; not to allow freedom of speech to.

Gag (v. t.) To pry or hold open by means of a gag.

Gag (v. t.) To cause to heave with nausea.

Gag (v. i.) To heave with nausea; to retch.

Gag (v. i.) To introduce gags or interpolations. See Gag, n., 3.

Gag (n.) Something thrust into the mouth or throat to hinder speaking.

Gag (n.) A mouthful that makes one retch; a choking bit; as, a gag of mutton fat.

Gag (n.) A speech or phrase interpolated offhand by an actor on the stage in his part as written, usually consisting of some seasonable or local allusion.

Gagate (n.) Agate.

Gage (n.) A pledge or pawn; something laid down or given as a security for the performance of some act by the person depositing it, and forfeited by nonperformance; security.

Gage (n.) A glove, cap, or the like, cast on the ground as a challenge to combat, and to be taken up by the accepter of the challenge; a challenge; a defiance.

Gage (n.) A variety of plum; as, the greengage; also, the blue gage, frost gage, golden gage, etc., having more or less likeness to the greengage. See Greengage.

Gaged (imp. & p. p.) of Gage

Gaging (p. pr & vb. n.) of Gage

Gage (n.) To give or deposit as a pledge or security for some act; to wage or wager; to pawn or pledge.

Gage (n.) To bind by pledge, or security; to engage.

Gage (n.) A measure or standard. See Gauge, n.

Gage (v. t.) To measure. See Gauge, v. t.

Gager (n.) A measurer. See Gauger.

Gagger (n.) One who gags.

Habiliment (n.) Dress, in general.

Habilimented (a.) Clothed. Taylor (1630).

Habilitate (a.) Qualified or entitled.

Habilitate (v. t.) To fit out; to equip; to qualify; to entitle.

Habilitation (n.) Equipment; qualification.

Hability (n.) Ability; aptitude.

Habit (n.) The usual condition or state of a person or thing, either natural or acquired, regarded as something had, possessed, and firmly retained; as, a religious habit; his habit is morose; elms have a spreading habit; esp., physical temperament or constitution; as, a full habit of body.

Habit (n.) The general appearance and manner of life of a living organism.

Habit (n.) Fixed or established custom; ordinary course of conduct; practice; usage; hence, prominently, the involuntary tendency or aptitude to perform certain actions which is acquired by their frequent repetition; as, habit is second nature; also, peculiar ways of acting; characteristic forms of behavior.

Habit (n.) Outward appearance; attire; dress; hence, a garment; esp., a closely fitting garment or dress worn by ladies; as, a riding habit.

Habited (imp. & p. p.) of Habit

Habiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Habit

Habit (n.) To inhabit.

Habit (n.) To dress; to clothe; to array.

Habit (n.) To accustom; to habituate. [Obs.] Chapman.

Habitability (n.) Habitableness.

Habitable (a.) Capable of being inhabited; that may be inhabited or dwelt in; as, the habitable world.

Habitakle (v.) A dwelling place.

Habitan (n.) Same as Habitant, 2.

Habitance (n.) Dwelling; abode; residence.

Habiitancy (n.) Same as Inhabitancy.

Habitant (v. t.) An inhabitant; a dweller.

Habitant (v. t.) An inhabitant or resident; -- a name applied to and denoting farmers of French descent or origin in Canada, especially in the Province of Quebec; -- usually in plural.

Habitat (v. t.) The natural abode, locality or region of an animal or plant.

Habitat (v. t.) Place where anything is commonly found.

Habitation (n.) The act of inhabiting; state of inhabiting or dwelling, or of being inhabited; occupancy.

Habitation (n.) Place of abode; settled dwelling; residence; house.

Habitator (n.) A dweller; an inhabitant.

Habited (p. p. & a.) Clothed; arrayed; dressed; as, he was habited like a shepherd.

Habited (p. p. & a.) Fixed by habit; accustomed.

Habited (p. p. & a.) Inhabited.

Habitual (n.) Formed or acquired by habit or use.

Habitual (n.) According to habit; established by habit; customary; constant; as, the habiual practice of sin.

Habituated (imp. & p. p.) of Habituate

Habituating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Habituate

Habituate (v. t.) To make accustomed; to accustom; to familiarize.

Habituate (v. t.) To settle as an inhabitant.

Habituate (a.) Firmly established by custom; formed by habit; habitual.

Habituation (n.) The act of habituating, or accustoming; the state of being habituated.

Habitude (n.) Habitual attitude; usual or accustomed state with reference to something else; established or usual relations.

Habitude (n.) Habitual association, intercourse, or familiarity.

Habitude (n.) Habit of body or of action.

Habitue (n.) One who habitually frequents a place; as, an habitue of a theater.

Habiture (n.) Habitude.

Habitus (n.) Habitude; mode of life; general appearance.

Hable (a.) See Habile.

Habnab (adv.) By chance.

Hachure (n.) A short line used in drawing and engraving, especially in shading and denoting different surfaces, as in map drawing. See Hatching.

Hacienda (n.) A large estate where work of any kind is done, as agriculture, manufacturing, mining, or raising of animals; a cultivated farm, with a good house, in distinction from a farming establishment with rude huts for herdsmen, etc.; -- a word used in Spanish-American regions.

Hack (n.) A frame or grating of various kinds; as, a frame for drying bricks, fish, or cheese; a rack for feeding cattle; a grating in a mill race, etc.

Hack (n.) Unburned brick or tile, stacked up for drying.

Hacked (imp. & p. p.) of Hack

Hacking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Hack

Hack (v. t.) To cut irregulary, without skill or definite purpose; to notch; to mangle by repeated strokes of a cutting instrument; as, to hack a post.

Hack (v. t.) Fig.: To mangle in speaking.

Hack (v. i.) To cough faintly and frequently, or in a short, broken manner; as, a hacking cough.

Hack (n.) A notch; a cut.

Hack (n.) An implement for cutting a notch; a large pick used in breaking stone.

Hack (n.) A hacking; a catch in speaking; a short, broken cough.

Complicateness (n.) Complexity.

Complication (n.) The act or process of complicating; the state of being complicated; intricate or confused relation of parts; entanglement; complexity.

Complication (n.) A disease or diseases, or adventitious circumstances or conditions, coexistent with and modifying a primary disease, but not necessarily connected with it.

Complices (pl. ) of Complice

Complice (n.) An accomplice.

Complicities (pl. ) of Complicity

Complicity (n.) The state of being an accomplice; participation in guilt.

Complier (n.) One who complies, yields, or obeys; one of an easy, yielding temper.

Compliment (n.) An expression, by word or act, of approbation, regard, confidence, civility, or admiration; a flattering speech or attention; a ceremonious greeting; as, to send one's compliments to a friend.

Compliment (v. t.) To praise, flatter, or gratify, by expressions of approbation, respect, or congratulation; to make or pay a compliment to.

Compliment (v. i.) To pass compliments; to use conventional expressions of respect.

Complimental (a.) Complimentary.

Complimentary (a.) Expressive of regard or praise; of the nature of, or containing, a compliment; as, a complimentary remark; a complimentary ticket.

Complimentative (a.) Complimentary.

Complimenter (n.) One who compliments; one given to complimenting; a flatterer.

Compline (n.) Alt. of Complin

Complin (n.) The last division of the Roman Catholic breviary; the seventh and last of the canonical hours of the Western church; the last prayer of the day, to be said after sunset.

Complot (n.) A plotting together; a confederacy in some evil design; a conspiracy.

Complotted (imp. & p. p.) of Complot

Complotting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Complot

Complot (v. t. & i.) To plot or plan together; to conspire; to join in a secret design.

Complotment (n.) A plotting together.

Complotter (n.) One joined in a plot.

Complutensian (a.) Of or pertaining to Complutum (now Alcala de Henares) a city near Madrid; as, the Complutensian Bible.

Compluvium (n.) A space left unroofed over the court of a Roman dwelling, through which the rain fell into the impluvium or cistern.

Complied (imp. & p. p.) of Comply

Complying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Comply

Comply (v. i.) To yield assent; to accord; agree, or acquiesce; to adapt one's self; to consent or conform; -- usually followed by with.

Comply (v. i.) To be ceremoniously courteous; to make one's compliments.

Comply (v. i.) To fulfill; to accomplish.

Comply (v. i.) To infold; to embrace.

Compone (v. t.) To compose; to settle; to arrange.

Compone (a.) See Compony.

Component (v. t.) Serving, or helping, to form; composing; constituting; constituent.

Component (n.) A constituent part; an ingredient.

Compony (a.) Alt. of Compone

Compone (a.) Divided into squares of alternate tinctures in a single row; -- said of any bearing; or, in the case of a bearing having curved lines, divided into patches of alternate colors following the curve. If there are two rows it is called counter-compony.

Comported (imp. & p. p.) of Comport

Comporting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Comport

Comport (v. i.) To bear or endure; to put up (with); as, to comport with an injury.

Comport (v. i.) To agree; to accord; to suit; -- sometimes followed by with.

Comport (v. t.) To bear; to endure; to brook; to put with.

Comport (v. t.) To carry; to conduct; -- with a reflexive pronoun.

Comport (n.) Manner of acting; behavior; conduct; deportment.

Comportable (a.) Suitable; consistent.

Comportance (n.) Behavior; comport.

Comportation (n.) A bringing together.

Comportment (n.) Manner of acting; behavior; bearing.

Composed (imp. & p. p.) of Compose

Composing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compose

Compose (v. t.) To form by putting together two or more things or parts; to put together; to make up; to fashion.

Compose (v. t.) To form the substance of, or part of the substance of; to constitute.

Compose (v. t.) To construct by mental labor; to design and execute, or put together, in a manner involving the adaptation of forms of expression to ideas, or to the laws of harmony or proportion; as, to compose a sentence, a sermon, a symphony, or a picture.

Compose (v. t.) To dispose in proper form; to reduce to order; to put in proper state or condition; to adjust; to regulate.

Compose (v. t.) To free from agitation or disturbance; to tranquilize; to soothe; to calm; to quiet.

Compose (v. t.) To arrange (types) in a composing stick in order for printing; to set (type).

Compose (v. i.) To come to terms.

Composed (a.) Free from agitation; calm; sedate; quiet; tranquil; self-possessed.

Composer (n.) One who composes; an author. Specifically, an author of a piece of music.

Composer (n.) One who, or that which, quiets or calms; one who adjusts a difference.

Composing (a.) Tending to compose or soothe.

Composing (a.) Pertaining to, or used in, composition.

Compositae (n. pl.) A large family of dicotyledonous plants, having their flowers arranged in dense heads of many small florets and their anthers united in a tube. The daisy, dandelion, and asters, are examples.

Composite (v. t.) Made up of distinct parts or elements; compounded; as, a composite language.

Composite (v. t.) Belonging to a certain order which is composed of the Ionic order grafted upon the Corinthian. It is called also the Roman or the Italic order, and is one of the five orders recognized by the Italian writers of the sixteenth century. See Capital.

Composite (v. t.) Belonging to the order Compositae; bearing involucrate heads of many small florets, as the daisy, thistle, and dandelion.

Composite (n.) That which is made up of parts or compounded of several elements; composition; combination; compound.

Composition (n.) The act or art of composing, or forming a whole or integral, by placing together and uniting different things, parts, or ingredients.

Composition (n.) The invention or combination of the parts of any literary work or discourse, or of a work of art; as, the composition of a poem or a piece of music.

Composition (n.) The art or practice of so combining the different parts of a work of art as to produce a harmonious whole; also, a work of art considered as such. See 4, below.

Composition (n.) The act of writing for practice in a language, as English, Latin, German, etc.

Composition (n.) The setting up of type and arranging it for printing.

Composition (n.) The state of being put together or composed; conjunction; combination; adjustment.

Composition (n.) A mass or body formed by combining two or more substances; as, a chemical composition.

Composition (n.) A literary, musical, or artistic production, especially one showing study and care in arrangement; -- often used of an elementary essay or translation done as an educational exercise.

Composition (n.) Consistency; accord; congruity.

Composition (n.) Mutual agreement to terms or conditions for the settlement of a difference or controversy; also, the terms or conditions of settlement; agreement.

Composition (n.) The adjustment of a debt, or avoidance of an obligation, by some form of compensation agreed on between the parties; also, the sum or amount of compensation agreed upon in the adjustment.

Composition (n.) Synthesis as opposed to analysis.

Compositive (a.) Having the quality of entering into composition; compounded.

Compositor (n.) One who composes or sets in order.

Compositor (n.) One who sets type and arranges it for use.

Compositous (a.) Belonging to the Compositae; composite.

Compossible (a.) Able to exist with another thing; consistent.

Compost (n.) A mixture; a compound.

Compost (n.) A mixture for fertilizing land; esp., a composition of various substances (as muck, mold, lime, and stable manure) thoroughly mingled and decomposed, as in a compost heap.

Compost (v. t.) To manure with compost.

Compost (v. t.) To mingle, as different fertilizing substances, in a mass where they will decompose and form into a compost.

Composture (n.) Manure; compost.

Composure (n.) The act of composing, or that which is composed; a composition.

Composure (n.) Orderly adjustment; disposition.

Composure (n.) Frame; make; temperament.

Composure (n.) A settled state; calmness; sedateness; tranquillity; repose.

Composure (n.) A combination; a union; a bond.

Compotation (n.) The act of drinking or tippling together.

Compotator (n.) One who drinks with another.

Compote (n.) A preparation of fruit in sirup in such a manner as to preserve its form, either whole, halved, or quartered; as, a compote of pears.

Compound (n.) In the East Indies, an inclosure containing a house, outbuildings, etc.

Compounded (imp. & p. p.) of Compound

Compounding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compound

Compound (v. t.) To form or make by combining different elements, ingredients, or parts; as, to compound a medicine.

Compound (v. t.) To put together, as elements, ingredients, or parts, in order to form a whole; to combine, mix, or unite.

Compound (v. t.) To modify or change by combination with some other thing or part; to mingle with something else.

Compound (v. t.) To compose; to constitute.

Compound (v. t.) To settle amicably; to adjust by agreement; to compromise; to discharge from obligation upon terms different from those which were stipulated; as, to compound a debt.

Compound (v. i.) To effect a composition; to come to terms of agreement; to agree; to settle by a compromise; -- usually followed by with before the person participating, and for before the thing compounded or the consideration.

Compound (v. t.) Composed of two or more elements, ingredients, parts; produced by the union of several ingredients, parts, or things; composite; as, a compound word.

Compound (n.) That which is compounded or formed by the union or mixture of elements ingredients, or parts; a combination of simples; a compound word; the result of composition.

Compound (n.) A union of two or more ingredients in definite proportions by weight, so combined as to form a distinct substance; as, water is a compound of oxygen and hydrogen.

Compoundable (a.) That may be compounded.

Compounder (n.) One who, or that which, compounds or mixes; as, a compounder of medicines.

Compounder (n.) One who attempts to bring persons or parties to terms of agreement, or to accomplish, ends by compromises.

Compounder (n.) One who compounds a debt, obligation, or crime.

Compounder (n.) One at a university who pays extraordinary fees for the degree he is to take.

Compounder (n.) A Jacobite who favored the restoration of James II, on condition of a general amnesty and of guarantees for the security of the civil and ecclesiastical constitution of the realm.

Comprador (n.) A kind of steward or agent.

Comprecation (n.) A praying together.

Comprehended (imp. & p. p.) of Comprehend

Comprehending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Comprehend

Comprehend (v. t.) To contain; to embrace; to include; as, the states comprehended in the Austrian Empire.

Comprehend (v. t.) To take in or include by construction or implication; to comprise; to imply.

Comprehend (v. t.) To take into the mind; to grasp with the understanding; to apprehend the meaning of; to understand.

Comprehensibility (n.) The quality or state of being comprehensible; capability of being understood.

Comprehensible (a.) Capable of being comprehended, included, or comprised.

Comprehensible (a.) Capable of being understood; intelligible; conceivable by the mind.

Comprehensibleness (n.) The quality of being comprehensible; comprehensibility.

Comprehensibly (adv.) With great extent of signification; comprehensively.

Comprehensibly (adv.) Intelligibly; in a manner to be comprehended or understood.

Comprehension (n.) The act of comprehending, containing, or comprising; inclusion.

Comprehension (n.) That which is comprehended or inclosed within narrow limits; a summary; an epitome.

Comprehension (n.) The capacity of the mind to perceive and understand; the power, act, or process of grasping with the intellect; perception; understanding; as, a comprehension of abstract principles.

Comprehension (n.) The complement of attributes which make up the notion signified by a general term.

Comprehension (n.) A figure by which the name of a whole is put for a part, or that of a part for a whole, or a definite number for an indefinite.

Comprehensive (a.) Including much; comprising many things; having a wide scope or a full view.

Comprehensive (a.) Having the power to comprehend or understand many things.

Comprehensive (a.) Possessing peculiarities that are characteristic of several diverse groups.

Comprehensively (adv.) In a comprehensive manner; with great extent of scope.

Comprehensiveness (n.) The quality of being comprehensive; extensiveness of scope.

Comprehensor (n.) One who comprehends; one who has attained to a full knowledge.

Compressed (imp. & p. p.) of Compress

Compressing (p. pr & vb. n.) of Compress

Compress (v. t.) To press or squeeze together; to force into a narrower compass; to reduce the volume of by pressure; to compact; to condense; as, to compress air or water.

Compress (v. t.) To embrace sexually.

Compress (n.) A folded piece of cloth, pledget of lint, etc., used to cover the dressing of wounds, and so placed as, by the aid of a bandage, to make due pressure on any part.

Compressed (a.) Pressed together; compacted; reduced in volume by pressure.

Compressed (a.) Flattened lengthwise.

Compressibility (n.) The quality of being compressible of being compressible; as, the compressibility of elastic fluids.

Compressible (a.) Capable of being pressed together or forced into a narrower compass, as an elastic or spongy substance.

Compressibleness (n.) The quality of being compressible; compressibility.

Compression (n.) The act of compressing, or state of being compressed.

Compressive (a.) Compressing, or having power or tendency to compress; as, a compressive force.

Compressor (n.) Anything which serves to compress

Compressor (n.) A muscle that compresses certain parts.

Compressor (n.) An instrument for compressing an artery (esp., the femoral artery) or other part.

Compressor (n.) An apparatus for confining or flattening between glass plates an object to be examined with the microscope; -- called also compressorium.

Compressor (n.) A machine for compressing gases; especially, an air compressor.

Compressure (n.) Compression.

Comprint (v. t. & i.) To print together.

Comprint (v. t. & i.) To print surreptitiously a work belonging to another.

Comprint (n.) The surreptitious printing of another's copy or book; a work thus printed.

Comprisal (n.) The act of comprising or comprehending; a compendium or epitome.

Comprised (imp. & p. p.) of Comprise

Comprising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Comprise

Comprise (v. t.) To comprehend; to include.

Comprobate (v. i.) To agree; to concur.

Comprobation (n.) Joint attestation; proof.

Comprobation (n.) Approbation.

Compromise (n.) A mutual agreement to refer matters in dispute to the decision of arbitrators.

Compromise (n.) A settlement by arbitration or by mutual consent reached by concession on both sides; a reciprocal abatement of extreme demands or rights, resulting in an agreement.

Compromise (n.) A committal to something derogatory or objectionable; a prejudicial concession; a surrender; as, a compromise of character or right.

Compromised (imp. & p. p.) of Compromise

Compromising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compromise

Compromise (n.) To bind by mutual agreement; to agree.

Compromise (n.) To adjust and settle by mutual concessions; to compound.

Compromise (n.) To pledge by some act or declaration; to endanger the life, reputation, etc., of, by some act which can not be recalled; to expose to suspicion.

Compromise (v. i.) To agree; to accord.

Compromise (v. i.) To make concession for conciliation and peace.

Compromiser (n.) One who compromises.

Compromissorial (a.) Relating to compromise.

Compromitted (imp. & p. p.) of Compromit

Compromitting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compromit

Compromit (n.) To pledge by some act or declaration; to promise.

Compromit (n.) To put to hazard, by some indiscretion; to endanger; to compromise; as, to compromit the honor or the safety of a nation.

Comprovincial (a.) Belonging to, or associated in, the same province.

Comprovincial (n.) One who belongs to the same province.

Compsognathus (n.) A genus of Dinosauria found in the Jurassic formation, and remarkable for having several birdlike features.

Compt (n.) Account; reckoning; computation.

Compt (v. t.) To compute; to count.

Compt (a.) Neat; spruce.

Compter (n.) A counter.

Compte rendu () A report of an officer or agent.

Comptible (v. t.) Accountable; responsible; sensitive.

Comptly (adv.) Neatly.

Comptrol (n. & v.) See Control.

Comptroler (n.) A controller; a public officer whose duty it is to examine certify accounts.

Compulsative (a.) Compulsatory.

Compulsatively (adv.) By compulsion.

Compulsatory (a.) Operating with force; compelling; forcing; constraining; resulting from, or enforced by, compulsion.

Compulsion (n.) The act of compelling, or the state of being compelled; the act of driving or urging by force or by physical or moral constraint; subjection to force.

Compulsive (a.) Having power to compel; exercising or applying compulsion.

Compulsively (adv.) By compulsion; by force.

Compulsorily (adv.) In a compulsory manner; by force or constraint.

Compulsory (a.) Having the power of compulsion; constraining.

Compulsory (a.) Obligatory; enjoined by authority; necessary; due to compulsion.

Compunct (a.) Affected with compunction; conscience-stricken.

Compunction (n.) A pricking; stimulation.

Compunction (n.) A picking of heart; poignant grief proceeding from a sense of guilt or consciousness of causing pain; the sting of conscience.

Compunctionless (a.) Without compunction.

Compunctious (a.) Of the nature of compunction; caused by conscience; attended with, or causing, compunction.

Compunctiously (adv.) With compunction.

Compunctive (a.) Sensitive in respect of wrongdoing; conscientious.

Compurgation (v. t.) The act or practice of justifying or confirming a man's veracity by the oath of others; -- called also wager of law. See Purgation; also Wager of law, under Wager.

Compurgation (v. t.) Exculpation by testimony to one's veracity or innocence.

Compurgator (n.) One who bears testimony or swears to the veracity or innocence of another. See Purgation; also Wager of law, under Wager.

Compurgatorial (a.) Relating to a compurgator or to compurgation.

Computable (a.) Capable of being computed, numbered, or reckoned.

Computation (n.) The act or process of computing; calculation; reckoning.

Computation (n.) The result of computation; the amount computed.

Computed (imp. & p. p.) of Compute

Computing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Compute

Compute (v. t.) To determine calculation; to reckon; to count.

Compute (n.) Computation.

Computer (n.) One who computes.

Computist (n.) A computer.

Comrade (n.) A mate, companion, or associate.

Comradery (n.) The spirit of comradeship; comradeship.

Comradeship (n.) The state of being a comrade; intimate fellowship.

Comrogue (n.) A fellow rogue.

Comtism (n.) Positivism; the positive philosophy. See Positivism.

Comtist (n.) A disciple of Comte; a positivist.

Con- () A prefix, fr. L. cum, signifying with, together, etc. See Com-.

Con (adv.) Against the affirmative side; in opposition; on the negative side; -- The antithesis of pro, and usually in connection with it. See Pro.

Conned (imp. & p. p.) of Con

Conning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Con

Con (v. t.) To know; to understand; to acknowledge.

Con (v. t.) To study in order to know; to peruse; to learn; to commit to memory; to regard studiously.

Con (v. t.) To conduct, or superintend the steering of (a vessel); to watch the course of (a vessel) and direct the helmsman how to steer.

Conacre (v. t.) To underlet a portion of, for a single crop; -- said of a farm.

Conacre (n.) A system of letting a portion of a farm for a single crop.

Conacre (n.) Also used adjectively; as, the conacre system or principle.

Conarium (n.) The pineal gland.

Conation (n.) The power or act which directs or impels to effort of any kind, whether muscular or psychical.

Conative (a.) Of or pertaining to conation.

Conatus (n.) A natural tendency inherent in a body to develop itself; an attempt; an effort.

Concamerate (v. t.) To arch over; to vault.

Concamerate (v. t.) To divide into chambers or cells.

Concameration (n.) An arch or vault.

Concameration (n.) A chamber of a multilocular shell.

Tabarder (n.) A scholar on the foundation of Queen's College, Oxford, England, whose original dress was a tabard.

Tabaret (n.) A stout silk having satin stripes, -- used for furniture.

Tabasheer (n.) A concretion in the joints of the bamboo, which consists largely or chiefly of pure silica. It is highly valued in the East Indies as a medicine for the cure of bilious vomitings, bloody flux, piles, and various other diseases.

Tabbinet (n.) A fabric like poplin, with a watered surface.

Tabbies (pl. ) of Tabby

Tabby (n.) A kind of waved silk, usually called watered silk, manufactured like taffeta, but thicker and stronger. The watering is given to it by calendering.

Tabby (n.) A mixture of lime with shells, gravel, or stones, in equal proportions, with an equal proportion of water. When dry, this becomes as hard as rock.

Tabby (n.) A brindled cat; hence, popularly, any cat.

Tabby (n.) An old maid or gossip.

Tabby (a.) Having a wavy or watered appearance; as, a tabby waistcoat.

Tabby (a.) Brindled; diversified in color; as, a tabby cat.

Tabbied (imp. & p. p.) of Tabby

Tabbying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tabby

Tabby (v. t.) To water; to cause to look wavy, by the process of calendering; to calender; as, to tabby silk, mohair, ribbon, etc.

Tabefaction (n.) A wasting away; a gradual losing of flesh by disease.

Tabefied (imp. & p. p.) of Tabefy

Tabefying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tabefy

Tabefy (v. t.) To cause to waste gradually, to emaciate.

Tabellion (n.) A secretary or notary under the Roman empire; also, a similar officer in France during the old monarchy.

Taber (v. i.) Same as Tabor.

Taberd (n.) See Tabard.

Tabernacle (n.) A slightly built or temporary habitation; especially, a tent.

Tabernacle (n.) A portable structure of wooden framework covered with curtains, which was carried through the wilderness in the Israelitish exodus, as a place of sacrifice and worship.

Tabernacle (n.) Hence, the Jewish temple; sometimes, any other place for worship.

Tabernacle (n.) Figuratively: The human body, as the temporary abode of the soul.

Tabernacle (n.) Any small cell, or like place, in which some holy or precious things was deposited or kept.

Tabernacle (n.) The ornamental receptacle for the pyx, or for the consecrated elements, whether a part of a building or movable.

Tabernacle (n.) A niche for the image of a saint, or for any sacred painting or sculpture.

Tabernacle (n.) Hence, a work of art of sacred subject, having a partially architectural character, as a solid frame resting on a bracket, or the like.

Tabernacle (n.) A tryptich for sacred imagery.

Tabernacle (n.) A seat or stall in a choir, with its canopy.

Tabernacle (n.) A boxlike step for a mast with the after side open, so that the mast can be lowered to pass under bridges, etc.

Tabernacled (imp. & p. p.) of Tabernacle

Tabernacling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tabernacle

Tabernacle (v. i.) To dwell or reside for a time; to be temporary housed.

Tabernacular (a.) Of or pertaining to a tabernacle, especially the Jewish tabernacle.

Tabernacular (a.) Formed in latticework; latticed.

Tabernacular (a.) Of or pertaining to huts or booths; hence, common; low.

Tabes (n.) Progressive emaciation of the body, accompained with hectic fever, with no well-marked logical symptoms.

Tabescent (a.) Withering, or wasting away.

Tabetic (a.) Of or pertaining to tabes; of the nature of tabes; affected with tabes; tabid.

Tabetic (n.) One affected with tabes.

Tabid (a.) Affected by tabes; tabetic.

Tabific (a.) Alt. of Tabifical

Tabifical (a.) Producing tabes; wasting; tabefying.

Tabinet (n.) See Tabbinet.

Tablature (n.) A painting on a wall or ceiling; a single piece comprehended in one view, and formed according to one design; hence, a picture in general.

Tablature (n.) An ancient mode of indicating musical sounds by letters and other signs instead of by notes.

Tablature (n.) Division into plates or tables with intervening spaces; as, the tablature of the cranial bones.

Table (n.) A smooth, flat surface, like the side of a board; a thin, flat, smooth piece of anything; a slab.

Table (n.) A thin, flat piece of wood, stone, metal, or other material, on which anything is cut, traced, written, or painted; a tablet

Table (n.) a memorandum book.

Table (n.) Any smooth, flat surface upon which an inscription, a drawing, or the like, may be produced.

Table (n.) Hence, in a great variety of applications: A condensed statement which may be comprehended by the eye in a single view; a methodical or systematic synopsis; the presentation of many items or particulars in one group; a scheme; a schedule.

Table (n.) A view of the contents of a work; a statement of the principal topics discussed; an index; a syllabus; a synopsis; as, a table of contents.

Table (n.) A list of substances and their properties; especially, a list of the elementary substances with their atomic weights, densities, symbols, etc.

Table (n.) Any collection and arrangement in a condensed form of many particulars or values, for ready reference, as of weights, measures, currency, specific gravities, etc.; also, a series of numbers following some law, and expressing particular values corresponding to certain other numbers on which they depend, and by means of which they are taken out for use in computations; as, tables of logarithms, sines, tangents, squares, cubes, etc.; annuity tables; interest tables; astronomical tables, etc.

Table (n.) The arrangement or disposition of the lines which appear on the inside of the hand.

Table (n.) An article of furniture, consisting of a flat slab, board, or the like, having a smooth surface, fixed horizontally on legs, and used for a great variety of purposes, as in eating, writing, or working.

Table (n.) Hence, food placed on a table to be partaken of; fare; entertainment; as, to set a good table.

Table (n.) The company assembled round a table.

Table (n.) One of the two, external and internal, layers of compact bone, separated by diploe, in the walls of the cranium.

Table (n.) A stringcourse which includes an offset; esp., a band of stone, or the like, set where an offset is required, so as to make it decorative. See Water table.

Table (n.) The board on the opposite sides of which backgammon and draughts are played.

Table (n.) One of the divisions of a backgammon board; as, to play into the right-hand table.

Table (n.) The games of backgammon and of draughts.

Table (n.) A circular plate of crown glass.

Table (n.) The upper flat surface of a diamond or other precious stone, the sides of which are cut in angles.

Table (n.) A plane surface, supposed to be transparent and perpendicular to the horizon; -- called also perspective plane.

Table (n.) The part of a machine tool on which the work rests and is fastened.

Tableed (imp. & p. p.) of Table

Tableing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Table

Table (v. t.) To form into a table or catalogue; to tabulate; as, to table fines.

Table (v. t.) To delineate, as on a table; to represent, as in a picture.

Table (v. t.) To supply with food; to feed.

Table (v. t.) To insert, as one piece of timber into another, by alternate scores or projections from the middle, to prevent slipping; to scarf.

Table (v. t.) To lay or place on a table, as money.

Table (v. t.) In parliamentary usage, to lay on the table; to postpone, by a formal vote, the consideration of (a bill, motion, or the like) till called for, or indefinitely.

Table (v. t.) To enter upon the docket; as, to table charges against some one.

Table (v. t.) To make board hems in the skirts and bottoms of (sails) in order to strengthen them in the part attached to the boltrope.

Table (v. i.) To live at the table of another; to board; to eat.

Tableaux (pl. ) of Tableau

Tableau (n.) A striking and vivid representation; a picture.

Tableau (n.) A representation of some scene by means of persons grouped in the proper manner, placed in appropriate postures, and remaining silent and motionless.

Tableaux vivants (pl. ) of Tableau vivant

Tableau vivant () Same as Tableau, n., 2.

Tablebook (n.) A tablet; a notebook.

Tablecloth (n.) A cloth for covering a table, especially one with which a table is covered before the dishes, etc., are set on for meals.

Tables d'hote (pl. ) of Table d'hote

Table d'hote () A common table for guests at a hotel; an ordinary.

Table-land (n.) A broad, level, elevated area of land; a plateau.

Tablemen (pl. ) of Tableman

Tableman (n.) A man at draughts; a piece used in playing games at tables. See Table, n., 10.

Tablement (n.) A table.

Tabler (n.) One who boards.

Tabler (n.) One who boards others for hire.

Tablespoon (n.) A spoon of the largest size commonly used at the table; -- distinguished from teaspoon, dessert spoon, etc.

Tablespoonfuls (pl. ) of Tablespoonful

Tablespoonful (n.) As much as a tablespoon will hold; enough to fill a tablespoon. It is usually reckoned as one half of a fluid ounce, or four fluid drams.

Tablet (n.) A small table or flat surface.

Tablet (n.) A flat piece of any material on which to write, paint, draw, or engrave; also, such a piece containing an inscription or a picture.

Tablet (n.) Hence, a small picture; a miniature.

Tablet (n.) A kind of pocket memorandum book.

Tablet (n.) A flattish cake or piece; as, tablets of arsenic were formerly worn as a preservative against the plague.

Tablet (n.) A solid kind of electuary or confection, commonly made of dry ingredients with sugar, and usually formed into little flat squares; -- called also lozenge, and troche, especially when of a round or rounded form.

Tableware (n.) Ware, or articles collectively, for table use.

Tabling (n.) A forming into tables; a setting down in order.

Tabling (n.) The letting of one timber into another by alternate scores or projections, as in shipbuilding.

Tabling (n.) A broad hem on the edge of a sail.

Tabling (n.) Board; support.

Tabling (n.) Act of playing at tables. See Table, n., 10.

Taboo (n.) A total prohibition of intercourse with, use of, or approach to, a given person or thing under pain of death, -- an interdict of religious origin and authority, formerly common in the islands of Polynesia; interdiction.

Tabooed (imp. & p. p.) of Taboo

Tabooing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Taboo

Taboo (v. t.) To put under taboo; to forbid, or to forbid the use of; to interdict approach to, or use of; as, to taboo the ground set apart as a sanctuary for criminals.

Tabor (n.) A small drum used as an accompaniment to a pipe or fife, both being played by the same person.

Tabored (imp. & p. p.) of Tabor

Taboring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tabor

Tabor (v. i.) To play on a tabor, or little drum.

Tabor (v. i.) To strike lightly and frequently.

Tabor (v. t.) To make (a sound) with a tabor.

Taborer (n.) One who plays on the tabor.

Taboret (n.) A small tabor.

Polychoerany (n.) A government by many chiefs, princes, or rules.

Polychord (a.) Having many strings.

Polychord (n.) A musical instrument of ten strings.

Polychord (n.) An apparatus for coupling two octave notes, capable of being attached to a keyed instrument.

Polychrest (n.) A medicine that serves for many uses, or that cures many diseases.

Polychroism (n.) Same as Pleochroism.

Polychroite (n.) The coloring matter of saffron; -- formerly so called because of the change of color on treatment with certain acids; -- called also crocin, and safranin.

Polychromate (n.) A salt of a polychromic acid.

Polychromate (n.) A compound which exhibits, or from which may be prepared, a variety of colors, as certain solutions derived from vegetables, which display colors by fluorescence.

Polychromatic (a.) Showing a variety, or a change, of colors.

Polychrome (n.) Esculin; -- so called in allusion to its fluorescent solutions.

Polychrome (a.) Executed in the manner of polychromy; as, polychrome printing.

Polychromic (a.) Polychromatic.

Polychromic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, any one of several acids (known only in their salts) which contain more than one atom of chromium.

Polychromous (a.) Of or pertaining to polychromy; many-colored; polychromatic.

Polychromy (n.) The art or practice of combining different colors, especially brilliant ones, in an artistic way.

Polychronious (a.) Enduring through a long time; chronic.

Polyclinic (n.) A clinic in which diseases of many sorts are treated; especially, an institution in which clinical instruction is given in all kinds of disease.

Polyconic (a.) Pertaining to, or based upon, many cones.

Polycotyledon (n.) A plant that has many, or more than two, cotyledons in the seed.

Polycotyledonary (a.) Having the villi of the placenta collected into definite patches, or cotyledons.

Polycracy (n.) Government by many rulers; polyarchy.

Polycrotic (a.) Of or pertaining to polycrotism; manifesting polycrotism; as, a polycrotic pulse; a polycrotic pulse curve.

Polycrotism (n.) That state or condition of the pulse in which the pulse curve, or sphygmogram, shows several secondary crests or elevations; -- contrasted with monocrotism and dicrotism.

Polycystid (n.) One of the Polycystidea.

Polycystid (n.) One of the Polycystina.

Polycystid (a.) Pertaining to the Polycystidea, or the Polycystina.

Polycystidea (n. pl.) A division of Gregarinae including those that have two or more internal divisions of the body.

Polycystina (n. pl.) A division of Radiolaria including numerous minute marine species. The skeleton is composed of silica, and is often very elegant in form and sculpture. Many have been found in the fossil state.

Polycystine (a.) Pertaining to the Polycystina.

Polycystine (n.) One of the Polycystina.

Polycyttaria (n. pl.) A division of Radiolaria. It includes those having one more central capsules.

Polydactylism (n.) The possession of more that the normal number of digits.

Polydipsia (n.) Excessive and constant thirst occasioned by disease.

Polyedron (n.) See Polyhedron.

Polyedrous (a.) See Polyhedral.

Polyeidic (a.) Passing through several distinct larval forms; -- having several distinct kinds of young.

Polyeidism (n.) The quality or state of being polyeidic.

Polyembryonate (a.) Consisting of, or having, several embryos; polyembryonic.

Polyembryonic (a.) Polyembryonate.

Polyembryony (n.) The production of two or more embryos in one seed, due either to the existence and fertilization of more than one embryonic sac or to the origination of embryos outside of the embryonic sac.

Polyfoil (n.) Same as Multifoil.

Polygala (n.) A genus of bitter herbs or shrubs having eight stamens and a two-celled ovary (as the Seneca snakeroot, the flowering wintergreen, etc.); milkwort.

Polygalaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Polygalaceae) of which Polygala is the type.

Polygalic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, Polygala; specifically, designating an acrid glucoside (called polygalic acid, senegin, etc.), resembling, or possibly identical with, saponin.

Polygamia (n. pl.) A Linnaean class of plants, characterized by having both hermaphrodite and unisexual flowers on the same plant.

Polygamia (n. pl.) A name given by Linnaeus to file orders of plants having syngenesious flowers.

Polygamian (a.) Polygamous.

Polygamist (a.) One who practices polygamy, or maintains its lawfulness.

Polygamize (v. i.) To practice polygamy; to marry several wives.

Polygamous (a.) Of or pertaining to polygamy; characterized by, or involving, polygamy; having a plurality of wives; as, polygamous marriages; -- opposed to monogamous.

Polygamous (a.) Pairing with more than one female.

Polygamous (a.) Belonging to the Polygamia; bearing both hermaphrodite and unisexual flowers on the same plant.

Polygamy (n.) The having of a plurality of wives or husbands at the same time; usually, the marriage of a man to more than one woman, or the practice of having several wives, at the same time; -- opposed to monogamy; as, the nations of the East practiced polygamy. See the Note under Bigamy, and cf. Polyandry.

Polygamy (n.) The state or habit of having more than one mate.

Polygamy (n.) The condition or state of a plant which bears both perfect and unisexual flowers.

Polygastrian (n.) One of the Polygastrica.

Polygastric (a.) Having several bellies; -- applied to muscles which are made up of several bellies separated by short tendons.

Polygastric (a.) Pertaining to the Polygastrica.

Polygastric (n.) One of the Polygastrica.

Polygastrica (n. pl.) The Infusoria.

Polygenesis (n.) Alt. of Polygeny

Polygeny (n.) The theory that living organisms originate in cells or embryos of different kinds, instead of coming from a single cell; -- opposed to monogenesis.

Polygenetic (a.) Having many distinct sources; originating at various places or times.

Polygenetic (a.) Of or pertaining to polygenesis; polyphyletic.

Polygenic (a.) Of or relating to polygeny; polygenetic.

Polygenism (n.) The doctrine that animals of the same species have sprung from more than one original pair.

Polygenist (n.) One who maintains that animals of the same species have sprung from more than one original pair; -- opposed to monogenist.

Polygenous (a.) Consisting of, or containing, many kinds; as, a polygenous mountain.

Polyglot (a.) Containing, or made up, of, several languages; as, a polyglot lexicon, Bible.

Polyglot (a.) Versed in, or speaking, many languages.

Polyglot (n.) One who speaks several languages.

Polyglot (n.) A book containing several versions of the same text, or containing the same subject matter in several languages; esp., the Scriptures in several languages.

Polyglottous (a.) Speaking many languages; polyglot.

Polygon (n.) A plane figure having many angles, and consequently many sides; esp., one whose perimeter consists of more than four sides; any figure having many angles.

Polygonaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order of apetalous plants (Polygonaceae), of which the knotweeds (species of Polygonum) are the type, and which includes also the docks (Rumex), the buckwheat, rhubarb, sea grape (Coccoloba), and several other genera.

Polygonal (a.) Having many angles.

Polygoneutic (a.) Having two or more broods in a season.

Polygonometry (n.) The doctrine of polygons; an extension of some of the principles of trigonometry to the case of polygons.

Polygonous (a.) Polygonal.

Polygonum (n.) A genus of plants embracing a large number of species, including bistort, knotweed, smartweed, etc.

Polygony (n.) Any plant of the genus Polygonum.

Polygordius (n.) A genus of marine annelids, believed to be an ancient or ancestral type. It is remarkable for its simplicity of structure and want of parapodia. It is the type of the order Archiannelida, or Gymnotoma. See Loeven's larva.

Polygram (n.) A figure consisting of many lines.

Polygraph (n.) An instrument for multiplying copies of a writing; a manifold writer; a copying machine.

Polygraph (n.) In bibliography, a collection of different works, either by one or several authors.

Polygraph (n.) An instrument for detecting deceptive statements by a subject, by measuring several physiological states of the subject, such as pulse, heartbeat, and sweating. The instrument records these parameters on a strip of paper while the subject is asked questions designed to elicit emotional responses when the subject tries to deceive the interrogator. Also called lie detector

Polygraphic (a.) Alt. of Polygraphical

Polygraphical (a.) Pertaining to, or employed in, polygraphy; as, a polygraphic instrument.

Polygraphical (a.) Done with a polygraph; as, a polygraphic copy.

Polygraphy (n.) Much writing; writing of many books.

Polygraphy (n.) The art of writing in various ciphers, and of deciphering the same.

Polygraphy (n.) The art or practice of using a polygraph.

Polygrooved (a.) Having many grooves; as, a polygrooved rifle or gun (referring to the rifling).

Polygyn (n.) A plant of the order Polygynia.

Polygynia (n. pl.) A Linnaean order of plants having many styles.

Polygynian (a.) Alt. of Polygynous

Polygynous (a.) Having many styles; belonging to the order Polygynia.

Polygynist (n.) One who practices or advocates polygyny.

Polygyny (n.) The state or practice of having several wives at the same time; marriage to several wives.

Polyhalite (n.) A mineral usually occurring in fibrous masses, of a brick-red color, being tinged with iron, and consisting chiefly of the sulphates of lime, magnesia, and soda.

Polyhedral (a.) Alt. of Polyhedrical

Polyhedrical (a.) Having many sides, as a solid body.

Polyhedrons (pl. ) of Polyhedron

Polyhedra (pl. ) of Polyhedron

Polyhedron (n.) A body or solid contained by many sides or planes.

Polyhedron (n.) A polyscope, or multiplying glass.

Polyhedrous (a.) Polyhedral.

Polyhistor (n.) One versed in various learning.

Polyhymnia (n.) The Muse of lyric poetry.

Polyiodide (n.) A iodide having more than one atom of iodine in the molecule.

Polylogy (n.) Talkativeness.

Polyloquent (a.) Garrulous; loquacious.

Polymastism (n.) The condition of having more than two mammae, or breasts.

Polymathic (a.) Pertaining to polymathy; acquainted with many branches of learning.

Polymathist (n.) One versed in many sciences; a person of various learning.

Polymathy (n.) The knowledge of many arts and sciences; variety of learning.

Polymeniscous (a.) Having numerous facets; -- said of the compound eyes of insects and crustaceans.

Polymer (n.) Any one of two or more substances related to each other by polymerism; specifically, a substance produced from another substance by chemical polymerization.

Polymeric (a.) Having the same percentage composition (that is, having the same elements united in the same proportion by weight), but different molecular weights; -- often used with with; thus, cyanic acid (CNOH), fulminic acid (C2N2O2H2), and cyanuric acid (C3N3O3H3), are polymeric with each other.

Polymerism (n.) The state, quality, or relation of two or more polymeric substances.

Polymerism (n.) The act or process of forming polymers.

Polymerization (n.) The act or process of changing to a polymeric form; the condition resulting from such change.

Polymerize (v. t.) To cause polymerization of; to produce polymers from; to increase the molecular weight of, without changing the atomic proportions; thus, certain acids polymerize aldehyde.

Polymerize (v. i.) To change into another substance having the same atomic proportions, but a higher molecular weight; to undergo polymerization; thus, aldehyde polymerizes in forming paraldehyde.

Polymerous (a.) Having many parts or members in each set.

Polymerous (a.) Polymeric.

Polymnia (n.) See Polyhymnia.

Polymnite (n.) A stone marked with dendrites and black lines, and so disposed as to represent rivers, marshes, etc.

Polymorph (n.) A substance capable of crystallizing in several distinct forms; also, any one of these forms. Cf. Allomorph.

Polymorphic (a.) Polymorphous.

Polymorphism (n.) Same as Pleomorphism.

Polymorphism (n.) The capability of assuming different forms; the capability of widely varying in form.

Polymorphism (n.) Existence in many forms; the coexistence, in the same locality, of two or more distinct forms independent of sex, not connected by intermediate gradations, but produced from common parents.

Polymorphosis (n.) The assumption of several structural forms without a corresponding difference in function; -- said of sponges, etc.

Polymorphous (a.) Having, or assuming, a variety of forms, characters, or styles; as, a polymorphous author.

Polymorphous (a.) Having, or occurring in, several distinct forms; -- opposed to monomorphic.

Polymorphy (n.) Existence in many forms; polymorphism.

Poly-mountain (n.) Same as Poly, n.

Poly-mountain (n.) The closely related Teucrium montanum, formerly called Polium montanum, a plant of Southern Europe.

Poly-mountain (n.) The Bartsia alpina, a low purple-flowered herb of Europe.

Polymyodae (n. pl.) Same as Oscines.

Polymyodous (a.) Polymyoid.

Polymyoid (a.) Having numerous vocal muscles; of or pertaining to the Polymyodae.

Polyneme (n.) Any one of numerous species of tropical food fishes of the family Polynemidae. They have several slender filaments, often very long, below the pectoral fin. Some of them yield isinglass of good quality. Called also threadfish.

Polynemoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the polynemes, or the family Polynemidae.

Polynesian (a.) Of or pertaining to Polynesia (the islands of the eastern and central Pacific), or to the Polynesians.

Polynesians (n. pl.) The race of men native in Polynesia.

Polynia (n.) The open sea supposed to surround the north pole.

Polynomial (n.) An expression composed of two or more terms, connected by the signs plus or minus; as, a2 - 2ab + b2.

Polynomial (a.) Consisting of two or more words; having names consisting of two or more words; as, a polynomial name; polynomial nomenclature.

Polynuclear (a.) Containing many nuclei.

Polynucleolar (a.) Having more than one nucleolus.

Polyommatous (a.) Having many eyes.

Polyonomous (a.) Having many names or titles; polyonymous.

Polyonomy (n.) The use of a variety of names for the same object.

Polyonym (n.) An object which has a variety of names.

Polyonymous (a.) Polyonomous.

Polyoptron (n.) Alt. of Polyoptrum

Polyoptrum (n.) A glass through which objects appear multiplied, but diminished in size.